source/getting-started/welcome-email-to-end-users.rst, before:

Welcome Email to End Users
===========================

To make it easy for your end users to start using Mattermost right away, we created a sample email template that you can use.

Remember to replace all the items below in bold with your information.

Email Template
---------------

From: **[company name]** IT Team

To: End users

Subject: New Communication Platform - Mattermost


Hi all,
 
As some of you already know, we are moving to Mattermost as our communication platform. Mattermost is a messaging app where you can talk, share files, and collaborate on projects or initiatives. Mattermost also integrates with many of the apps that you use every day, like **[add apps]**.  

We are moving to Mattermost because it will host all our communication in one place, is instantly searchable and available from all your devices.

Some of the major benefits of using Mattermost are:

- Direct 1:1 and group messaging

- Channels for topic-based, group-based, or meeting-based chat

- Streamlined collaboration on projects

- Reduced email clutter

- Searching across messages and channels

- Sharing files

To get started:

1. Open a browser on your computer, go to **[Mattermost URL]** and log in with your **[LDAP/AD, SAML, Google, etc]** credentials. Remember to bookmark the URL so you can use it to log in next time.

2. `Download <https://mattermost.com/download/#mattermostApps>`__ the Mattermost apps for desktop and mobile. Refer to the `Mattermost Welcome Guide <https://docs.mattermost.com/help/getting-started/welcome-to-mattermost.html>`__ on how to get up and running quickly.


3. Start messaging! 


Questions?
If you have any questions, feel free to post in the **[~Mattermost channel]** or email us at **[IT email]**.

Happy messaging!

**[company name]** IT Team

Commit message:

Update remaining instances of "Messaging" to "Channels" (#5002)
* Update remaining instances of "Messaging" to "Channels"

* Messaging > Channels & Link updates

* Messaging > Channels & link updates

* Messaging > Channels

Generalized the instances of Messaging at the top of the page; left all other instances as-is, given their context

* Messaging > Collaboration

* Messaging > Channels

* Removed "messaging" instance to be generic

* Removed some instances of Messaging to be generic

Left remaining instances as-is given their context

* No "messaging" changes

Left existing instances as-is given their context

* Messaging left as-is

Updated links

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/getting-started/implementation-plan.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/onboard/migrating-from-hipchat-to-mattermost.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/onboard/migrating-to-mattermost.rst

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

source/getting-started/welcome-email-to-end-users.rst, after:

Welcome Email to End Users
===========================

To make it easy for your end users to start using Mattermost right away, we created a sample email template that you can use.

Remember to replace all the items below in bold with your information.

Email Template
---------------

From: **[company name]** IT Team

To: End users

Subject: New Communication Platform - Mattermost


Hi all,
 
As some of you already know, we are moving to Mattermost as our communication platform. Mattermost is collaboration software you can use to talk, share files, and collaborate on projects or initiatives. Mattermost also integrates with many of the apps that you use every day, like **[add apps]**.  

We are moving to Mattermost because it will host all our communication in one place, is instantly searchable and available from all your devices.

Some of the major benefits of using Mattermost are:

- Direct 1:1 and group messaging

- Channels for topic-based, group-based, or meeting-based chat

- Streamlined collaboration on projects

- Reduced email clutter

- Searching across messages and channels

- Sharing files

To get started:

1. Open a browser on your computer, go to **[Mattermost URL]** and log in with your **[LDAP/AD, SAML, Google, etc]** credentials. Remember to bookmark the URL so you can use it to log in next time.

2. `Download <https://mattermost.com/download/#mattermostApps>`__ the Mattermost apps for desktop and mobile. See the `Channels documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/welcome-to-mattermost-messaging.html>`__ for details on how to get up and running quickly.


3. Start messaging! 


Questions?
If you have any questions, feel free to post in the **[~Mattermost channel]** or email us at **[IT email]**.

Happy messaging!

**[company name]** IT Team
