source/help/messaging/keyboard-shortcuts.rst, before:

Keyboard Shortcuts
------------------

Keyboard shortcuts perform operations in Mattermost to help you navigate through channels and make a more efficient use of your keyboard. See also `slash commands <http://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/executing-commands.html>`_ for alternate ways to help carry out actions with a keyboard instead of a mouse.

To display a list of available keyboard shortcuts, type ``CTRL/CMD + /``, or ``/shortcuts``.

Navigation
==========

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                                  | 
+========================================+========================================+==============================================================================+
| ALT+UP                                 | ALT+UP                                 | Previous channel or direct message in left hand sidebar                      |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+DOWN                               | ALT+DOWN                               | Next channel or direct message in left hand sidebar                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+SHIFT+UP                           | ALT+SHIFT+UP                           | Previous channel or direct message in left hand sidebar with unread messages |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+SHIFT+DOWN                         | ALT+SHIFT+DOWN                         | Next channel or direct message in left hand sidebar with unread messages     |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+K                                 | CMD+K                                  | Open a quick channel switcher dialog                                         |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+SHIFT+A                           | CMD+SHIFT+A                            | Open account settings                                                        |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+SHIFT+M                           | CMD+SHIFT+M                            | Open recent mentions                                                         |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Files
=====

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                    | 
+========================================+========================================+================================================================+
| CTRL+U                                 | CMD+U                                  | Upload a file                                                  |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

Messages
========

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                                | 
+========================================+========================================+============================================================================+
| CTRL+UP (in empty input field)         | CMD+UP (in empty input field)          | Reprint previous message or slash command you entered                      |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+DOWN (in empty input field)       | CMD+DOWN (in empty input field)        | Reprint next message or slash command you entered                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| UP (in empty input field)              | UP (in empty input field)              | Edit your last message in the current channel                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @[character]+TAB                       | @[character]+TAB                       | Autocomplete @username beginning with [character]                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :[character]+TAB                       | :[character]+TAB                       | Autocomplete emoji beginning with [character]                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Browser Built-in
================

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                    | 
+========================================+========================================+================================================================+
| ALT+LEFT                               | CMD+[                                  | Previous channel in your history                               |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+RIGHT                              | CMD+]                                  | Next channel in your history                                   |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+PLUS                              | CMD+PLUS                               | Increase font size (zoom in)                                   |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+MINUS                             | CMD+MINUS                              | Decrease font size (zoom out)                                  |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+UP (in input field)              | SHIFT+UP (in input field)              | Highlight text to the previous line                            |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+DOWN (in input field)            | SHIFT+DOWN (in input field)            | Highlight text to the next line                                |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+ENTER (in input field)           | SHIFT+ENTER (in input field)           | Create a new line                                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

Commit message:

Add 'mark messages read or unread' section

source/help/messaging/keyboard-shortcuts.rst, after:

Keyboard Shortcuts
------------------

Keyboard shortcuts perform operations in Mattermost to help you navigate through channels and make a more efficient use of your keyboard. See also `slash commands <http://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/executing-commands.html>`_ for alternate ways to help carry out actions with a keyboard instead of a mouse.

To display a list of available keyboard shortcuts, type ``CTRL/CMD + /``, or ``/shortcuts``.

Navigation
==========

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                                  | 
+========================================+========================================+==============================================================================+
| ALT+UP                                 | ALT+UP                                 | Previous channel or direct message in left hand sidebar                      |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+DOWN                               | ALT+DOWN                               | Next channel or direct message in left hand sidebar                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+SHIFT+UP                           | ALT+SHIFT+UP                           | Previous channel or direct message in left hand sidebar with unread messages |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+SHIFT+DOWN                         | ALT+SHIFT+DOWN                         | Next channel or direct message in left hand sidebar with unread messages     |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+K                                 | CMD+K                                  | Open a quick channel switcher dialog                                         |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+SHIFT+A                           | CMD+SHIFT+A                            | Open account settings                                                        |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+SHIFT+M                           | CMD+SHIFT+M                            | Open recent mentions                                                         |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Files
=====

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                    | 
+========================================+========================================+================================================================+
| CTRL+U                                 | CMD+U                                  | Upload a file                                                  |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+

Mark messages read or unread
=====

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                                 | 
+========================================+========================================+=============================================================================+
| ALT+[click on a message]               | ALT+[click on a message]               | Set a message as your oldest unread message in the current channel          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ESC                                    | ESC                                    | Mark all messages in the current channel                                    |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Messages
========

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                                | 
+========================================+========================================+============================================================================+
| CTRL+UP (in empty input field)         | CMD+UP (in empty input field)          | Reprint previous message or slash command you entered                      |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+DOWN (in empty input field)       | CMD+DOWN (in empty input field)        | Reprint next message or slash command you entered                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| UP (in empty input field)              | UP (in empty input field)              | Edit your last message in the current channel                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| @[character]+TAB                       | @[character]+TAB                       | Autocomplete @username beginning with [character]                          |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| :[character]+TAB                       | :[character]+TAB                       | Autocomplete emoji beginning with [character]                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Browser Built-in
================

+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| On Windows                             | On Mac                                 | Description                                                    | 
+========================================+========================================+================================================================+
| ALT+LEFT                               | CMD+[                                  | Previous channel in your history                               |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| ALT+RIGHT                              | CMD+]                                  | Next channel in your history                                   |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+PLUS                              | CMD+PLUS                               | Increase font size (zoom in)                                   |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| CTRL+MINUS                             | CMD+MINUS                              | Decrease font size (zoom out)                                  |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+UP (in input field)              | SHIFT+UP (in input field)              | Highlight text to the previous line                            |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+DOWN (in input field)            | SHIFT+DOWN (in input field)            | Highlight text to the next line                                |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
| SHIFT+ENTER (in input field)           | SHIFT+ENTER (in input field)           | Create a new line                                              |
+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------+----------------------------------------------------------------+
