source/help/messaging/sending-messages.md, before:

# Sending Messages
_____

## Message Types
Reply to posts to keep conversations organized in threads.

#### Posts
Posts can be considered parent messages. They are the messages that often start a thread of replies. Posts are composed and sent from the text input box at the bottom of the center pane. 

#### Replies
Reply to a message by clicking the reply icon next to any message text. This action opens the right-hand-side (RHS) where you can see the message thread, then compose and send your reply. Replies are indented slightly in the center pane to indicate that they are child messages of a parent post.

## Sending a Message
Write a message by typing into the text input box, then press **ENTER** to send it. Use **Shift + ENTER** to create a new line without sending a message. To send messages by pressing **Ctrl+Enter** go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Send messages on Ctrl + Enter**.

## Editing a Message
Edit a message by clicking the **[...]** icon next to any message text that you’ve composed, then click **Edit**. After making modifications to the message text, press **ENTER** to save the modifications. A message edit does not trigger a desktop notification or notification sound for team members in the channel.

## Deleting a message
Delete a message by clicking the **[...]** icon next to any message text that you’ve composed, then click **Delete**. System and Team Admins can delete any message on their system or team.

Commit message:

Move permalinks to sending-messages.md

source/help/messaging/sending-messages.md, after:

# Sending Messages
_____

## Message Types
Reply to posts to keep conversations organized in threads.

#### Posts
Posts can be considered parent messages. They are the messages that often start a thread of replies. Posts are composed and sent from the text input box at the bottom of the center pane. 

#### Replies
Reply to a message by clicking the reply icon next to any message text. This action opens the right-hand-side (RHS) where you can see the message thread, then compose and send your reply. Replies are indented slightly in the center pane to indicate that they are child messages of a parent post.

## Posting a Message
Write a message by typing into the text input box, then press **ENTER** to send it. Use **Shift + ENTER** to create a new line without sending a message. To send messages by pressing **Ctrl+Enter** go to **Main Menu > Account Settings > Send messages on Ctrl + Enter**.

## Editing a Message
Edit a message by clicking the **[...]** icon next to any message text that you’ve composed, then click **Edit**. After making modifications to the message text, press **ENTER** to save the modifications. A message edit does not trigger a desktop notification or notification sound for team members in the channel.

## Deleting a message
Delete a message by clicking the **[...]** icon next to any message text that you’ve composed, then click **Delete**. System and Team Admins can delete any message on their system or team.

## Linking to a message
The **Permalink** feature creates a link to any message. Sharing this link with other users in the channel lets them view the linked message in the Message Archives. Users who are not a member of the channel where the message was posted cannot view the permalink. Get the permalink to any message by clicking the **[...]** icon next to the message text  > **Permalink** > **Copy Link**.
