**Note:** This file is automatically generated. Please see the [developer
documentation](doc/development/changelog.md) for instructions on adding your own
entry.

## 1.2.4 (2018-11-05)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.4.5.


## 1.2.3 (2018-11-01)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.4.4.


## 1.2.2 (2018-10-29)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.4.3.


## 1.2.1 (2018-10-29)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Skip custom CA mounts when unnecessary. !544

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.4.2.


## 1.2.0 (2018-10-22)

### Security (1 change)

- Update redis version to 3.2.12. !511

### Fixed (4 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Better handle self-signed certificate behaviors in NOTES.txt. !500
- NGINX: populate ingressClass from template. !520
- Move shared-secrets jobs run as non-root. !533
- Make gke bootstrap script work on MacOS. (Robert Marshall)

### Changed (1 change)

- Add safe-to-evict annotation to stateless deployments. !523

### Added (6 changes, 2 of them are from the community)

- Add missing settings to configure gitlab.yml. !496 (Erik Sundell)
- Add a global flag to set the gitlab edition that will be installed. !499 (Scott Leggett)
- Allow disabled shared-secrets chart. !510
- Add Gitlab operator to run upgrades of Gitlab. !516
- Move jobs management into the operator if it is enabled. !517
- Add control of exposed SSH port. !531

### Other (3 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Update Helm minimum requirement to 2.9. !505
- Use example.com in documentation and examples as per RFC2606. !512 (Scott Leggett)
- Update GitLab Version to 11.4.0.


## 1.1.6 (2018-10-17)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.6.


## 1.1.5 (2018-10-15)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Sidekiq: add credentials for Registry, #785. !535

### Added (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Add registry.enabled param in unicorn chart. !508 (Flavien Peyre)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.5.


## 1.1.4 (2018-10-05)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.4.


## 1.1.3 (2018-10-04)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.3.


## 1.1.2 (2018-10-03)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.2.


## 1.1.1 (2018-10-01)

### Other (1 change)

- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.1.


## 1.1.0 (2018-09-22)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Fix indentation error in self-signed-certs Job of shared-secrts.

### Changed (1 change)

- Registry: move http.secret to k8s secret (auto-generated). !485

### Added (3 changes, 2 of them are from the community)

- Allow to define under which user and group gitaly is running. !473 (Michael Schmid <michael@amazee.io>)
- Ensure job resources can be configured. !482
- Adds option to specify separate hostname for ssh access. !487 (Gijs Kunze)

### Other (2 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Added namespace to resources. !443 (Matthias van de Meent (Cofano Software Solutions))
- Update GitLab Version to 11.3.0.


## 1.0.2 (2018-08-28)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Fixed setting the connection to a non-default redis port. !470


## 1.0.1 (2018-08-22)

- No changes.

## 1.0.0 (2018-08-22)

### Fixed (4 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Minio/Redis: add spec.strategy.type=Recreate (#633). !423
- Add missing reference to uploads bucket in task-runner chart. !429 (Matt Welch)
- runner: fix gitlab-runner.cache.secret template.
- Fix changelog danger handling.

### Changed (12 changes)

- Move all Minio enabled to global configuration. !389
- Convert registry storage block to secret. !391
- Convert rails connection blocks to secrets. !393
- Add additional instructions to application.yaml, switch to v1beta1 of the CRD, and trigger purely off the create flag. !401
- Relocate lfs/artifacts/uploads configuration to global `appConfig`. !403
- Update memory requests based on observations. !418
- Update certmanager to v0.4.0 (#617). !424
- Allow external object storage for task-runner. !427
- Replace self-signed certificate generation, automatically CA add to custom CAs. !441
- Default sidekiq chart queues to upstream source defaults. !449
- Rails pods, except migrations, will wait for their desired schema version before starting. !462
- Bump the gitalb-runner chart version to 0.1.33. !468

### Performance (1 change)

- Use targetValue instead of targetUtilization fo hpa autoscaling. !433

### Added (7 changes, 3 of them are from the community)

- support multiple gitaly instances. !377
- Set preStop hooks to sidekiq and unicorn charts for graceful shutdown. !382 (Balasankar C)
- Add option to configure missing settings from gitlab.yml. !395 (Balasankar C)
- Move gitlab-workhorse to a separate container. !397 (Ian Baum)
- Implment support for incoming emails by adding a mailroom chart. !425
- Enable NGINX Ingress metrics by default. !434
- Add capability to inject custom root CAs. !436

### Other (8 changes)

- Better document the initial storage configuration options. !412
- Restructure examples and link docs. !445
- Add retreival of self-signed CA to NOTES.txt output when in use. !457
- Add example values for Minikube. !459
- Document deprecations behavior and deceision.
- Update external object storage documentation.
- add anti-affinity to nginx.
- Remove Dockerfile since it's been moved to gitlab-org/gitlab-build-images.


## 0.3.5 (2018-07-31)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Pin the minio/mc image version to a know working tag. !426


## 0.3.4 (2018-07-31)

- No changes.

## 0.3.3 (2018-07-27)

- No changes.

## 0.3.2 (2018-07-26)

- No changes.

## 0.3.1 (2018-07-23)

- No changes.

## 0.3.0

### Security (4 changes, 4 of them are from the community)

- Use minimum permissions for certmanager-issuer chart. !352 (Corey O'Brien)
- Limit nginx to chart namespace. !354 (Corey O'Brien)
- Limit rbac permission for shared-secrets. !356 (Corey O'Brien)
- Use self-signed certificate as last resort. !360 (Corey O'Brien)

### Fixed (1 change)

- Expanded OmniAuth configuration in Unicorn. !328

### Changed (3 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Change location of gitlab source code to /srv/gitlab. !15 (Balasankar C)
- Remove chart version from redis-ha immutable fields. !337
- Explicitly set resources.requests.cpu=50m on initContainers to enforce reduced resources. !369

### Added (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Support optional Application CRD. !363 (Corey O'Brien)

## 0.2.0

### Fixed (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Add consistent metadata for all charts. !319 (Corey O'Brien)

### Changed (2 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Change the initial root password to be contained in a secret, and autogenerated. !296
- Replace hardcoded image references with values. !324 (Dave Konopka)

### Other (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Bump redis version to 3.2.6. !325 (Corey O'Brien)

## 2018-06-12

### Removed (1 change)

- Removed version number from statefulset metadata. !318

### Fixed (1 change)

- Resolve No longer possible to disable nginx ingress. !311

### Changed (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Use .Release.Name in the name of all Secrets. !302 (Corey O'Brien)

### Added (3 changes)

- Unicorn: add support for object storage of job artifacts. !255
- Add global setting for imagePullPolicy. !305
- Sidekiq: add object storage configuration. !314

## 2018-06-05

### Changed (1 change)

- GitLab image tags can be set using a global, and default to the chart appVersion. !304

### Added (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Increase minimum repliacs to 2+ via HPAs where relevant. !285 (Corey O'Brien)

### Other (2 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Remove placeholder charts. !301 (Corey O'Brien)
- Use upstream gitlab-runner.

## 2018-05-29

### Fixed (1 change, 1 of them is from the community)

- Fix selectors for minio PDB to exclude Job Pods. !292 (Corey O'Brien)

### Added (3 changes, 2 of them are from the community)

- Implement global configuration for Gitaly. !287
- Add options to set annotations on Services. !298 (Corey O'Brien)
- Added soft host anti-affinity by default. (Corey O'Brien)

## 2018-05-22

### Added (3 changes, 3 of them are from the community)

- Add a script for running helm without tiller running in the cluster. !281 (Corey O'Brien)
- Add configuration for auxiliary cron jobs. !283 (Dave Konopka)
- Add basic PodDisruptionBudgets. !284 (Corey O'Brien)

## 2018-05-15

### Changed (2 changes)

- Replace omnibus postgresql instance with postegresql chart based on upstream. !216
- Switch Gitaly Deployment to a StatefulSet. !271

### Added (5 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Add prometheus exporter to postgres. !239
- Added configuration options for workhorse. !269 (Corey O'Brien)
- Add ability to configure Redis via Globals. !273
- Add prometheus exporter to gitaly. !274
- Add configuration for ldap authentication.

## 2018-05-08

### Security (1 change)

- Update NGINX Ingress to 0.14.0. !249

### Added (1 change)

- Add configuration options for time_zone, rack_attack, trusted_proxies, and extras. !260

## 2018-05-01

### Added (2 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Add configuration options for outgoing email persona. !238 (Corey O'Brien)
- Add object storage support for Uploads. !250

## 2018-04-17

### Fixed (1 change)

- Add updated sidekiq queues for GitLab 10.7. !212

### Added (3 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Implement global to configure extnernal static IP to simplify. !206
- Unicorn: add support for configuring Omniauth. !210
- Add Prometheus metrics exporters to Redis and Redis-HA charts. !215 (Dave Konopka)

### Other (2 changes, 1 of them is from the community)

- Bring CHANGELOG logic from gitlab-ce to helm.gitlab.io. !200 (Jason Plum)
- Changelog: introduce changelog_manager, with CI. !208

## 2018-03-22 Alpha

- See [alpha documentation](https://gitlab.com/charts/helm.gitlab.io/blob/master/doc/architecture/alpha.md)
