source/help/settings/channel-settings.rst, before:

Channel Settings
================

--------------

Notification preferences, channel header, channel purpose, and channel
name are customizable for each channel. To access these settings, click
the channel name at the top of the page to open the channel menu.

Channel Notification Preferences
--------------------------------

Notification preferences can be modified for each channel you belong to.

Send Desktop Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the desktop notification preference assigned in *Account
Settings* is used for all channels. To customize the desktop
notification preference for each channel, click the channel name at the
top of the page to access the channel menu, then click
**Notification Preferences > Send Desktop Notifications**.

Mark Channel Unread
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, channel names are bolded for all new messages in a channel. 
To only bold the channel name when you are mentioned, open the channel menu and click 
**Notification Preferences > Mark Channel Unread > Only for mention**.


Channel Header
--------------

In the channel menu, select **Edit Channel Header** to change the text that appears next to
the channel name at the top of the screen. It can be used to summarize
the channel topic or provide links to frequently accessed documents. Any
channel member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator
has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Channel Purpose
---------------

In the channel menu, select **Edit Channel Purpose** to change the text that appears in the
*More…* menu for channels. The channel purpose is usually a short
description that helps others decide whether to join the channel. Any
channel member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator
has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Channel Name
------------

In the channel menu, select **Rename Channel** to change the channel name or handle. Changing the channel handle changes the channel URL. Any channel
member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator has
`restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Commit message:

Added section for mobile push notifications

source/help/settings/channel-settings.rst, after:

Channel Settings
================

Notification preferences, channel header, channel purpose, and channel
name are customizable for each channel. To access these settings, click
the channel name at the top of the page to open the channel menu.

Channel Notification Preferences
--------------------------------

Notification preferences can be modified for each channel you belong to.

Send Desktop Notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the desktop notification preference assigned in *Account
Settings* is used for all channels. To customize the desktop
notification preference for each channel, click the channel name at the
top of the page to access the channel menu, then click
**Notification Preferences > Send Desktop Notifications**.

Send mobile push notifications
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, the mobile push notification preference assigned in *Account Settings* is used for all channels. To customize the mobile push notification for each channel, click the channel name at the top of the page to access the channel menu, then click **Notification Preferences > Send mobile push notifications**.

Mark Channel Unread
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, channel names are bolded for all new messages in a channel.
To only bold the channel name when you are mentioned, open the channel menu and click
**Notification Preferences > Mark Channel Unread > Only for mention**.


Channel Header
--------------

In the channel menu, select **Edit Channel Header** to change the text that appears next to
the channel name at the top of the screen. It can be used to summarize
the channel topic or provide links to frequently accessed documents. Any
channel member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator
has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Channel Purpose
---------------

In the channel menu, select **Edit Channel Purpose** to change the text that appears in the
*More…* menu for channels. The channel purpose is usually a short
description that helps others decide whether to join the channel. Any
channel member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator
has `restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.

Channel Name
------------

In the channel menu, select **Rename Channel** to change the channel name or handle. Changing the channel handle changes the channel URL. Any channel
member can edit this setting, unless the System Administrator has
`restricted the permissions <https://docs.mattermost.com/administration/config-settings.html#enable-public-channel-renaming-for>`__.
