source/guides/administrator.rst, before:

Administrator's Guide
=====================

In-depth documentation on installation, deployment and administration of Mattermost system.

Installing Mattermost
---------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   /install/requirements.rst
   Installing on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS </install/install-ubuntu-1404.rst>
   Installing on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS </install/install-ubuntu-1604.rst>
   Installing on RHEL 6.6 </install/install-rhel-66.rst>
   Installing on RHEL 7.1 </install/install-rhel-71.rst>
   /install/docker-local*
   /install/docker-ebs*
   /install/ee-install*
   /install/prod-docker*
   /install/smtp*
   /install/troubleshooting*
   /install/i18n*
   /install/desktop*

Deployment
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /deployment/on-boarding*
   /deployment/bulk-loading.rst
   /deployment/push*
   /deployment/sso-ldap*
   /deployment/auth*
   /deployment/sso-saml.rst
   /deployment/scaling*
   /deployment/cluster*
   /deployment/sso-gitlab*
   /deployment/sso-google*
   /deployment/sso-office*
   /deployment/metrics*

Administration
--------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /administration/command*
   /administration/config*
   /administration/team-settings.md
   /administration/statistics.md
   /administration/compliance*
   /administration/branding*
   /administration/backup*
   /administration/upgrade.md
   /administration/migrating.md

Changelog
=========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /administration/changelog*

Commit message:

Added install notes for CentOS, Oracle Linux, and Scientific Linux

source/guides/administrator.rst, after:

Administrator's Guide
=====================

In-depth documentation on installation, deployment and administration of Mattermost system.

Installing Mattermost
---------------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 1
   :glob:

   /install/requirements.rst
   Installing on Ubuntu 14.04 LTS </install/install-ubuntu-1404.rst>
   Installing on Ubuntu 16.04 LTS </install/install-ubuntu-1604.rst>
   Installing on RHEL 6.6 </install/install-rhel-66.rst>
   Installing on RHEL 7.1 </install/install-rhel-71.rst>
   Installing on CentOS, Oracle Linux, and Scientific Linux </install/install-centos-oracle-scientific.rst>
   /install/docker-local*
   /install/docker-ebs*
   /install/ee-install*
   /install/prod-docker*
   /install/smtp*
   /install/troubleshooting*
   /install/i18n*
   /install/desktop*

Deployment
----------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /deployment/on-boarding*
   /deployment/bulk-loading.rst
   /deployment/push*
   /deployment/sso-ldap*
   /deployment/auth*
   /deployment/sso-saml.rst
   /deployment/scaling*
   /deployment/cluster*
   /deployment/sso-gitlab*
   /deployment/sso-google*
   /deployment/sso-office*
   /deployment/metrics*

Administration
--------------

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /administration/command*
   /administration/config*
   /administration/team-settings.md
   /administration/statistics.md
   /administration/compliance*
   /administration/branding*
   /administration/backup*
   /administration/upgrade.md
   /administration/migrating.md

Changelog
=========

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :glob:

   /administration/changelog*
