source/guides/branding.rst, before:

============================================
Mattermost Branding and Naming Guidelines 
============================================

The Mattermost branding and naming guidelines are intended to help keep users safe and to support the development of community integrations.

OVERVIEW: 

.. contents::
  :backlinks: top
  :local:

-------------------------------
Mattermost Branding Principles 
-------------------------------

1) Keep users safe 
--------------------------------------------------------------

A key priority is making it clear to end users when they're installing software or following instructions from the official Mattermost open source project and from our 3rd party integration community. Guidelines are designed to make this process straight forward. 

2) Support community developers 
--------------------------------------------------------------

Branding and naming guidelines are intended to help developers of Mattermost integrations by making it easier to distinguish among projects using similar technologies, making projects easier to clearly reference, and making it straight forward to recognize the creators of the work. 

--------------------------------------
Mattermost Visual Design Guidelines 
--------------------------------------

Mattermost Logo 
-------------------------------

For details on Mattermost logo usage guidelines please visit: https://www.mattermost.org/brand-guidelines/

Mattermost User Experience 
-------------------------------

For details on the visual design of the Mattermost user experience, please see: https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/fx-guidelines.html

-------------------------------
Naming Usage Guidelines
-------------------------------

Using the Mattermost name is generally fine so long as it’s used in a non-commercial way and does not imply endorsement by Mattermost, Inc.

Naming Integrations 
-------------------------------

The following guidelines are intended to help developers of Mattermost integrations offer clear, consistent naming across the broader community. 

- IMPORTANT: Please do not name your integrations or apps starting with, or only using, the name “Mattermost”, as this may confuse end users as to where to find support

We ask community projects might be named using “for Mattermost”, examples:

- GitLab Integration Service for Mattermost
- Giphy Integration Service for Mattermost 

Alternatively, community projects may concatenate names containing Mattermost, for example:

- Matterbridge – is a Mattermost bridge connecting with IRC
- Mattersend – is a Mattermost integration for sending webhook events

Exception: Please don’t use the name “matterbot”, as that is an internal service under development.

As the Mattermost project grows, when there are multiple open source projects for similar Mattermost integrations we ask our community to include the owner of the repro, for example: 

- `Hubot Adapter for Mattermost by Heitor Lessa <https://www.npmjs.com/package/hubot-mattermost>`_
- `Hubot Adapter for Mattermost by Andy Lo-A-Foe <https://github.com/loafoe/hubot-matteruser>`_

Product Description
-------------------------------

Below are optional product descriptions that can be used when referring to Mattermost from other open source projects or commercial 3rd party integrations. 

General Mattermost description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When developing a Mattermost integration, the following description can be used to describe Mattermost: 

  Mattermost is an open source Slack-alternative built for enterprise. Thousands of companies use Mattermost for secure, compliant workplace messaging across web, PC and phones with archiving, search and integration with hundreds of third party applications. Available under MIT license in 11 languages, Mattermost offers peace-of-mind, value, control, and freedom from lock-in for organizations around the world. Learn more at https://mattermost.com/

Mattermost Team Edition description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When redistributing the open source Mattermost Team Edition binary, the following description may be used: 

  Mattermost Team Edition is an open source, self-hosted alternative to propretiary SaaS messaging. Mattermost brings all your team communication into one place, making it searchable and accessible anywhere. Deploys as single Linux binary on MySQL or PostgreSQL under an MIT license from mattermost.org/download.


Mattermost Enterprise Edition description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When redistributing the commercial Mattermost Enterprise Edition binary, the following description may be used: 

  Mattermost Enterprise Edition is a secure, configurable, highly scalable enterprise messaging for private clouds offering corporate directory integration, advanced access control, performance monitoring, multi-factor authentication, compliance and auditing support, and sophisticated configurations for horizontal scaling and high availability deployments. 

  Mattermost Enterprise Edition is free to use in "team mode" and is functionaly equivalent to the open source Mattermost Team Edition, with the added benefit of being able to enable advanced enterprise features with purchase of an annual subscription. 

-------------------------------
Mattermost Trademark Policy  
-------------------------------

Please see our full trademark policy at: https://www.mattermost.org/trademark-standards-of-use/

Commit message:

Removing principles section
Defined in introduction

source/guides/branding.rst, after:

============================================
Mattermost Branding and Naming Guidelines 
============================================

The Mattermost branding and naming guidelines are intended to help keep users safe and to support the development of community integrations through a set of consistent guidelines for use of the Mattermost name and brand. 

OVERVIEW: 

.. contents::
  :backlinks: top
  :local:

--------------------------------------
Mattermost Visual Design Guidelines 
--------------------------------------

Mattermost Logo 
-------------------------------

For details on Mattermost logo usage guidelines please visit: https://www.mattermost.org/brand-guidelines/

Mattermost User Experience 
-------------------------------

For details on the visual design of the Mattermost user experience, please see: https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/fx-guidelines.html

-------------------------------
Naming Usage Guidelines
-------------------------------

Using the Mattermost name is generally fine so long as it’s used in a non-commercial way and does not imply endorsement by Mattermost, Inc.

Naming Integrations 
-------------------------------

The following guidelines are intended to help developers of Mattermost integrations offer clear, consistent naming across the broader community. 

- IMPORTANT: Please do not name your integrations or apps starting with, or only using, the name “Mattermost”, as this may confuse end users as to where to find support

We ask community projects might be named using “for Mattermost”, examples:

- GitLab Integration Service for Mattermost
- Giphy Integration Service for Mattermost 

Alternatively, community projects may concatenate names containing Mattermost, for example:

- Matterbridge – is a Mattermost bridge connecting with IRC
- Mattersend – is a Mattermost integration for sending webhook events

Exception: Please don’t use the name “matterbot”, as that is an internal service under development.

As the Mattermost project grows, when there are multiple open source projects for similar Mattermost integrations we ask our community to include the owner of the repro, for example: 

- `Hubot Adapter for Mattermost by Heitor Lessa <https://www.npmjs.com/package/hubot-mattermost>`_
- `Hubot Adapter for Mattermost by Andy Lo-A-Foe <https://github.com/loafoe/hubot-matteruser>`_

Product Description
-------------------------------

Below are optional product descriptions that can be used when referring to Mattermost from other open source projects or commercial 3rd party integrations. 

General Mattermost description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When developing a Mattermost integration, the following description can be used to describe Mattermost: 

  Mattermost is an open source Slack-alternative built for enterprise. Thousands of companies use Mattermost for secure, compliant workplace messaging across web, PC and phones with archiving, search and integration with hundreds of third party applications. Available under MIT license in 11 languages, Mattermost offers peace-of-mind, value, control, and freedom from lock-in for organizations around the world. Learn more at https://mattermost.com/

Mattermost Team Edition description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When redistributing the open source Mattermost Team Edition binary, the following description may be used: 

  Mattermost Team Edition is an open source, self-hosted alternative to propretiary SaaS messaging. Mattermost brings all your team communication into one place, making it searchable and accessible anywhere. Deploys as single Linux binary on MySQL or PostgreSQL under an MIT license from mattermost.org/download.


Mattermost Enterprise Edition description 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When redistributing the commercial Mattermost Enterprise Edition binary, the following description may be used: 

  Mattermost Enterprise Edition is a secure, configurable, highly scalable enterprise messaging for private clouds offering corporate directory integration, advanced access control, performance monitoring, multi-factor authentication, compliance and auditing support, and sophisticated configurations for horizontal scaling and high availability deployments. 

  Mattermost Enterprise Edition is free to use in "team mode" and is functionaly equivalent to the open source Mattermost Team Edition, with the added benefit of being able to enable advanced enterprise features with purchase of an annual subscription. 

-------------------------------
Mattermost Trademark Policy  
-------------------------------

Please see our full trademark policy at: https://www.mattermost.org/trademark-standards-of-use/
