{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Create a New Workspace\
-----------------------------------\
To create a new workspace, provide your work email address and create a password. Next, name your workspace.  \
\
We suggest workspace names based on the email address you enter. If you are using a corporate email address, we use the email domain to suggest a workspace name. Your workspace name must not be used by other workspace. ``billing.cloud.mattermost.com`` and ``support.cloud.mattermost.com`` are reserved domains. \
\
Once you are logged into your workspace, you will be asked to complete your profile, including updating your name, adding a profile picture, naming your team, adding a team image, and sending invitations via email to additional users. Alternatively, you have the option to share an invitation link to other users. \
\
After creating your new team in your workspace, consider taking a tour of the Mattermost interface, configuring SAML or AD/LDAP authentication or adding a plugin. \
\
Workspace name squatting\
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^\
Mattermost prohibits workspace name squatting, and workspace names may not be reserved or inactively held for future use. Accounts found name squatting may be removed or renamed without notice. Attempts to sell, buy, or solicit other forms of payment in exchange for workspace names are prohibited and may result in permanent account suspension.\
\
}