{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Posts\
---------\
There are five different settings that allow you to control content in posts. \
\
1. Enable Link Previews: Link previews are previews of linked website content, image links, and YouTube videos that are displayed below posts when available.Users can enable or disable website previews for themselves from Account Settings > Display > Website Link Previews. You can also disable all website link previews, image link previews, and YouTube previews by changing this setting to false. \
2. Enable SVGs: Controls whether users have the ability to see previews of SVG file attachments and SVG image links.\
3. Enable LaTeX Rendering: Controls users\'92 ability to render LaTeX code.\
4. Custom URL Schemes: A list of URL schemes that are used for autolinking in message text. http, https, ftp, tel and mailto always create links.\
5. Google API Key: Mattermost offers the ability to embed YouTube videos from URLs shared by end users. Set this key and add YouTube Data API v3 as a service to your key to enable the display of titles for embedded YouTube video previews. Without the key, YouTube previews will still be created based on hyperlinks appearing in messages or comments but they will not show the video title. If Google detects the number of views is exceedingly high, they may throttle embed access. Should this occur, you can remove the throttle by registering for a Google Developer Key and entering it in this field following these instructions: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Im69kzhpR3I. Your Google Developer Key is used in client-side Javascript. Using a Google API Key allows Mattermost to detect when a video is no longer available and display the post with a Video not found label.\
\
}