{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1671\cocoasubrtf600
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc0\levelnfcn0\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{decimal\}.}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'02\'00.;}{\levelnumbers\'01;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 Users and Teams\
-----------------------\
\
There are seven different settings that allow you to control users and teams. \
\
1. Max Users Per Team: The Max Users Per Team refers to the size of the \'93team site\'94 which is workspace a \'93team of people\'94 inhabits. A team of people is considered a small organization where people work closely together towards a specific shared goal and share the same etiquette. In the physical world, a team of people could typically be seated around a single table to have a meal and discuss their project. The default maximum of 50 people, is at the extreme high end of a single team of people. At this point organizations are more often \'93multiple teams of people\'94 and investments in explicitly defining etiquette, such as channel organization or turning on policy features in Enterprise Edition, are often used to scale the high levels of productivity found in a team of people using Mattermost to multiple teams of people.\
2. Max Channels Per Team: Set the maximum number of channels per team, including both active and deleted channels.\
3. Enable users to open Direct Message channels with: You can configure if users can message any user on the Mattermost workspace or just users in the team that they are members of the teams the user is a member of. This setting adjusts the users returned in the Direct Messages More menu and CTRL/CMD+K channel switcher only lists users on the current team. This setting only affects the UI, not permissions on the server. For instance, a Direct Message channel can be created with anyone on the server regardless of this setting.\
4. Teammate Name Display: Specifies how names are displayed in the user interface by default. Please note that users can override this setting in Account Settings > Display > Teammate Name Display. \'93Show username\'94 displays the user\'92s username. \'93Show nickname if one exists\'94 displays the user\'92s nickname. If the user does not have a nickname, their full name is displayed. If the user does not have a full name, their username is displayed. \'93Show first and last name\'94 displays the user\'92s full name. If the user does not have a full name, their username is displayed. Recommended when using SAML or LDAP if first name and last name attributes are configured.\
5. Allow Users to View Archived Channels (Beta): Allows users to view, share, and search for content of channels that have been archived. Users can only view the content in channels of which they were a member before the channel was archived.\
6. Show Email Address: When set to false, this setting hides email address of users from other users in the user interface, including Team Admins. This is designed for managing teams where users choose to keep their contact information private. System Admins will still be able to see email addresses in the UI.\
7. Show Full Name: WHen set to false, this setting hides full name of users from other users including Team Admins. This is designed for managing teams where users choose to keep their contact information private. System Admins will still be able to see full names in the UI.\
}