DevOps Collaboration
====================

In DevOps, teams work together to accelerate software development and deployment processes, reduce costs, and ensure their organization remains competitive in the fast-paced digital marketplace. DevOp practitioners include a variety of disciplines including product managers, designers, developers, operations, quality assurance, security, and project managers. 

+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+
| Developers                                                                                      | Quality Assurance                                                                                   | Operations                                                                               | Security                                                                                 | Project Managers                                                                                      | Product Manager                                                     | Designers                                                   |
+=================================================================================================+=====================================================================================================+==========================================================================================+==========================================================================================+=======================================================================================================+=====================================================================+=============================================================+
| Responsible for writing, testing, and deploying code changes in a timely and efficient manner.  | Responsible for testing the software to ensure that it meets the desired quality standards.         | Responsible for managing and maintaining the infrastructure and systems that support     | Responsible for identifying and mitigating security risks in the software development    | Responsible for managing the initiatives and project, ensuring that outcomes are delivered on         | Responsible for providing insights from the business and customers  | Responsible for directing the user experience (UX) and      |
| They collaborate with other members of the team to ensure that code is of high quality,         | They collaborate with developers and operations teams to identify                                   | the software applications . They collaborate with developers to ensure that              | and deployment process. They collaborate with developers and operations teams to ensure  | time, within budget, and to customer or business specifications. They collaborate with all members    | that inform product development decisions.                          | user interface (UI) design of the software being developed. |
| meets customer requirements, and is delivered on time.                                          | and resolve issues before the software is released to production.                                   | the infrastructure is optimized for performance, scalability, and security.              | that security measures are built into the software and infrastructure from the start.    | of the team to ensure that the project is progressing according to plan.                              |                                                                     |                                                             |     
+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------+

DevOps teams can experience the following collaboration pains: 

- Members from different departments and timezones have different priorities, skills, and vocabularies, which can lead to misunderstandings, miscommunications, and delays in decision-making.
- Limited visibility into each other's work can lead to duplication of effort, conflicts, and missed opportunities for optimization.
- Resistance from stakeholders who are reluctant to adopt new technologies or processes can slow down innovation, increase costs, and create tension within the team.
- Difficulty ensuring that software is developed, deployed, and managed securely to protect against data breaches and cyber-attacks. This involves coordinating efforts between developers, operations, and security teams to identify and mitigate security risks.

There are several different processes that DevOps teams need to effectively collaborate in order to deliver software reliably. Each requires a different set of procedures and tools, but they all share the common goal of shipping high-quality software to meet customer needs and expectations. Mattermost can help solve collaboration pains in many DevOps use cases including: 

- Agile Software Development: Technical teams often work together to develop software or applications. Collaboration can include sharing code, working together on a common platform, and identifying and resolving technical issues.
- Quality Assurance and Testing: Technical teams can collaborate on quality assurance and testing, such as developing test plans, executing tests, and reporting defects. Collaboration can include sharing test results, coordinating efforts to fix issues, and ensuring that the final product meets quality standards.
- Platform Engineering: Technical teams can collaborate on managing and maintaining IT infrastructure, such as networks, servers, and storage systems. This can involve monitoring performance, identifying and resolving issues, and implementing upgrades or new technology. Technical teams collaborate together in continuous integration and delivery to automate the building, testing, and deployment of software applications. The collaboration involves developers, testers, operations, and security teams working together to ensure that code changes are efficiently and securely deployed to production environments.
- Release Management: Technical teams collaborate in release management by communicating and coordinating the release of software updates and features across different departments and stakeholders. This includes sharing information, tracking progress, and resolving issues in real-time to ensure that releases are delivered on time, with minimal disruption and risk to users and the business.
- Technical Support: Technical teams can collaborate on providing technical support to customers, such as diagnosing and resolving issues, providing documentation and training, and creating solutions to recurring problems. Collaboration can include sharing knowledge, coordinating efforts to resolve issues, and identifying opportunities for process improvement.
- Security Operations: Technical teams collaborate in security operations by sharing information, coordinating responses to security incidents, and implementing security measures to prevent future incidents. The collaboration can involve sharing threat intelligence, incident response plans, and coordinating efforts to prevent, detect, and respond to security incidents.

Enabling these different disciplines and processes to collaborate effectively is key to ensuring software quality and availability are maintained.
