source/help/getting-started/configuring-notifications.md, before:

# Configuring Notifications
_____
Notifications in Mattermost alert you to unread messages and mentions.

## Unread Notifications  
Channel name bolding and mention jewels notify you if there’s been activity in channels that you’re a member of since you were last online. When a channel with unreads is opened, there is an unread messages indicator placed at the location of the last read message.

#### Channel Bolding  
Unread messages in a channel are indicated by a bold channel name in the left-hand-side (LHS). Clicking the channel name removes the bolding.

- Change what activity triggers the channel bolding by clicking **Channel Menu** > **Notification Preferences** > **Mark Channel Unread**.  

#### Mention Jewels  
Unread mentions in a channel are indicated by bold text and a mention jewel next to the channel name in the LHS. Clicking the channel name removes the bolding and mention jewel. You can always review your recent mentions by clicking **@** next to the search box at the top of the screen. Learn more about [mentioning teammates](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/mentioning-teammates.html).

## Email Notifications
Emails are sent for any mentions you receive if you have mattermost closed or have not had any browser activity for a short time.

- Turn email notifications On or Off in **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Email Notifications**.
- Configure the email address where notifications are sent in **Account Settings** > **General** > **Email** 

## Desktop Notifications
These are browser notifications that appear in the corner of your main monitor. By default these notifications are sent for all activity while Mattermost is open. Desktop notifications are available on Firefox, Safari, and Chrome.

- Configure when desktop notifications are sent from **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Send Desktop Notifications**.
- Configure channel specific desktop notifications from **Channel Menu** > **Notification Preferences** > **Send Desktop Notifications**. By default, all channels use the global setting configured in *Account Settings*.

## Notification Sounds
A notification sound plays for all activity that would fire a desktop notification. Notification sounds are available on Safari, Chrome and Edge.

- Turn notification sounds On or Off in **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Desktop Notification Sounds**. 

## Browser Tab Notifications
The browser tab favicon updates to inform you of unread messages and mentions if Mattermost is open in an inactive browser tab. Browser tab notifications are available on Firefox and Chrome.

- Unread messages are denoted by an asterisk (*) next to a black Mattermost icon.
- Mentions are denoted by a red Mattermost icon with the number of unread mentions shown in brackets.

Commit message:

Added push notifications to getting started

source/help/getting-started/configuring-notifications.md, after:

# Configuring Notifications
_____
Notifications in Mattermost alert you to unread messages and mentions.

## Unread Notifications  
Channel name bolding and mention jewels notify you if there’s been activity in channels that you’re a member of since you were last online. When a channel with unreads is opened, there is an unread messages indicator placed at the location of the last read message.

#### Channel Bolding  
Unread messages in a channel are indicated by a bold channel name in the left-hand-side (LHS). Clicking the channel name removes the bolding.

- Change what activity triggers the channel bolding by clicking **Channel Menu** > **Notification Preferences** > **Mark Channel Unread**.  

#### Mention Jewels  
Unread mentions in a channel are indicated by bold text and a mention jewel next to the channel name in the LHS. Clicking the channel name removes the bolding and mention jewel. You can always review your recent mentions by clicking **@** next to the search box at the top of the screen. Learn more about [mentioning teammates](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/mentioning-teammates.html).

## Email Notifications
Emails are sent for any mentions you receive if you have mattermost closed or have not had any browser activity for a short time.

- Turn email notifications On or Off in **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Email Notifications**.
- Configure the email address where notifications are sent in **Account Settings** > **General** > **Email** 

## Desktop Notifications
These are browser notifications that appear in the corner of your main monitor. By default, these notifications are sent for all activity while Mattermost is open. Desktop notifications are available on Firefox, Safari, and Chrome.

- Configure when desktop notifications are sent from **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Desktop Notifications** > **Send Desktop Notifications**.
- Configure channel specific desktop notifications from **Channel Menu** > **Notification Preferences** > **Send Desktop Notifications**. By default, all channels use the global setting configured in *Account Settings*.

## Mobile Push Notifications
If the Mattermost Android or iOS app is installed, push notifications can be sent to your mobile device. By default, these notifications are sent for all activity for any channel that is not being viewed on desktop.

- Configure when push notifications are sent from **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Mobile Push Notifications** > **Send mobile push notifications**.
- Configure when push notifications are sent depending on your status from **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Mobile Push Notifications** > **Trigger push notifications when**.

## Notification Sounds
A notification sound plays for all activity that would fire a desktop notification. Notification sounds are available on Safari, Chrome and Edge.

- Turn notification sounds On or Off in **Account Settings** > **Notifications** > **Desktop Notification Sounds**. 

## Browser Tab Notifications
The browser tab favicon updates to inform you of unread messages and mentions if Mattermost is open in an inactive browser tab. Browser tab notifications are available on Firefox and Chrome.

- Unread messages are denoted by an asterisk (*) next to a black Mattermost icon.
- Mentions are denoted by a red Mattermost icon with the number of unread mentions shown in brackets.
