source/help/getting-started/managing-members.rst, before:

.. _managing-members:

Managing Members
================

Inviting Team Members
---------------------

If enabled by your System Admin, you can add people to your team in one of three ways: You can send a direct invite; you can share a public team invite link; or if they already have an account on the server, you can add them to the team yourself.

Direct Invites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your team's server directly to the invited person's email address. A link within the invitation directs them to an account creation page.

**To send a direct invite**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Send Email Invite** and enter the person's email address along with their first and last name.
3. To invite more than one person, click **Add another**.
4. Click **Send Invitation**.

Team Invite Link
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The team invite link is a unique URL that directs people to an account creation page for a team. A team invite link can be used by anyone and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team Admin or System Admin via **Team Settings > General > Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

**To get a team invite link**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Get Team Invite Link**.
3. In the window that opens, copy the link and share it with those you want to invite to the team.

Adding Someone to Your Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If someone you want to add to your team already has an account on the server, you can add them to your team without sending an invitation.

**To add someone to your team**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Add Members to Team**. The *Add New Members* window opens.
3. Click the username of the person or people to add to your team. You can type in the search box to filter the list. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they are either already on your team or they do not have an account on your server.

User Roles
----------

There are four types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Members, and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Administrators can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.

Member
~~~~~~

This is the default role given to users when they join a team. Members have basic permissions on the Mattermost team.

Channel Admin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The person who creates a channel is assigned the Channel Admin role for that channel. People with the Channel Admin role have the following privileges:

- Ability to assign the Channel Admin role to other members of the channel.
- Ability to remove the Channel Admin role from other holders of the Channel Admin role.
- Ability to remove members from the channel.

Depending on your system configuration, Channel Admins can be granted special permissions by the System Admin to rename and delete channels.

Team Admin
~~~~~~~~~~

When a team is first created, the person who set it up is made a Team Administrator. It is a team specific role, meaning that someone can be a Team Admin for one team but only a Member on another team. Team Administrators have the following privileges:

- Access to the "Team Settings" menu from the team site main menu
- Ability to change the team name and import data from Slack export files
- Access to the "Manage Members" menu, where they can control whether team members are "Members" or "Team Administrators"

System Admin
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first user added to a newly installed Mattermost system is assigned the System Admin role.

The System Admin is typically a member of the IT staff and has all the privileges of a Team Admin, along with the following additional privileges:

- Access to the System Console from the main menu in any team site
- Ability to change any setting on the Mattermost server available in the System Console
- Ability to promote and demote other users to and from the System Admin role
- Ability to make a user account Inactive and to reactivate an Inactive account

Inactive
~~~~~~~~

A System Admin has the ability to make a user account Inactive by going to **System Console > Teams**, and selecting a team to manage. From there they can go to the **User** page for the team, and manage a user's role.

When "Inactive" is selected, the user is logged out of the system, and receives an error message if they try to log back in. The user no longer appears in the channel members list. They are removed from the Direct Message "More" menu, but the Direct Message channel remains open for all users with it in the sidebar until it is closed. In the "Manage Members" list and the users list in the System Console, the user shows as "Inactive".

Because Mattermost is designed as a system-of-record, there is not an option to delete users from the Mattermost system, as such an operation could compromise the integrity of message archives.

An Inactive account can also be reactivated from the System Console. When reactivated, the Inactive Account rejoins the public channels and private groups that it previously belonged to.

Removing a User from a Team or Leaving a Team
---------------------------------------------

Remove from Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any Team Administrator has the ability to remove a user from a team by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Manage Members**, and selecting **Remove From Team** in the dropdown menu beside a user entry.

When a user is removed from a team, the team will no longer show up in their team sidebar. If they currently have the team open, they are redirected to the first team that appears on their team sidebar. If they didn't belong to any other teams, the user is sent to the team selection page.

Removing a user from the team does not make the account Inactive. The user will still be able to sign in to the site, and join other teams. They will also be able to rejoin the team they were removed from if they receive another invite, or if the team is set to ["Allow any user with an account on this server to join this team"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team). If the user does rejoin the team, they will no longer belong to the channels they were previously a part of, and they will lose all Admin privileges if they had them previously.

A System Administrator can also remove users from teams by going to **System Console > Teams**, and selecting a team to manage. From there, they can go to the **User** page for the team and select **Remove From Team** in the dropdown beside a user entry.

Leaving a Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Users can also choose to remove themselves from a team, by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Leave Team**. This will remove the user from the team, and from all public channels and private groups on the team.

They will only be able to rejoin the team if it is set to ["Allow any user with an account on this server to join this team"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team) team, or if they receive a new invite. If they do rejoin, they will no longer be a part of their old public channels and private groups.

Commit message:

Updated for new system console menu items

source/help/getting-started/managing-members.rst, after:

.. _managing-members:

Managing Members
================

Inviting Team Members
---------------------

If enabled by your System Admin, you can add people to your team in one of three ways: You can send a direct invite; you can share a public team invite link; or if they already have an account on the server, you can add them to the team yourself.

Direct Invites
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your team's server directly to the invited person's email address. A link within the invitation directs them to an account creation page.

**To send a direct invite**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Send Email Invite** and enter the person's email address along with their first and last name.
3. To invite more than one person, click **Add another**.
4. Click **Send Invitation**.

Team Invite Link
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The team invite link is a unique URL that directs people to an account creation page for a team. A team invite link can be used by anyone and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team Admin or System Admin via **Team Settings > General > Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

**To get a team invite link**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Get Team Invite Link**.
3. In the window that opens, copy the link and share it with those you want to invite to the team.

Adding Someone to Your Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If someone you want to add to your team already has an account on the server, you can add them to your team without sending an invitation.

**To add someone to your team**:

1. Click your username, at the top of the Navigation Panel.
2. Click **Add Members to Team**. The *Add New Members* window opens.
3. Click the username of the person or people to add to your team. You can type in the search box to filter the list. If the people you want to add are not on the list, then they are either already on your team or they do not have an account on your server.

User Roles
----------

There are four types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Members, and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Administrators can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.

Member
~~~~~~

This is the default role given to users when they join a team. Members have basic permissions on the Mattermost team.

Channel Admin
~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The person who creates a channel is assigned the Channel Admin role for that channel. People with the Channel Admin role have the following privileges:

- Ability to assign the Channel Admin role to other members of the channel.
- Ability to remove the Channel Admin role from other holders of the Channel Admin role.
- Ability to remove members from the channel.

Depending on your system configuration, Channel Admins can be granted special permissions by the System Admin to rename and delete channels.

Team Admin
~~~~~~~~~~

When a team is first created, the person who set it up is made a Team Administrator. It is a team specific role, meaning that someone can be a Team Admin for one team but only a Member on another team. Team Administrators have the following privileges:

- Access to the "Team Settings" menu from the team site main menu
- Ability to change the team name and import data from Slack export files
- Access to the "Manage Members" menu, where they can control whether team members are "Members" or "Team Administrators"

System Admin
~~~~~~~~~~~~

The first user added to a newly installed Mattermost system is assigned the System Admin role.

The System Admin is typically a member of the IT staff and has all the privileges of a Team Admin, along with the following additional privileges:

- Access to the System Console from the main menu in any team site
- Ability to change any setting on the Mattermost server available in the System Console
- Ability to promote and demote other users to and from the System Admin role
- Ability to make a user account Inactive and to reactivate an Inactive account

Inactive
~~~~~~~~

A System Admin has the ability to make a user account Inactive by going to **System Console > Users** for a list of all users on the server. The list can be searched and filtered to make finding the user easier. Click the user's role and in the menu that opens, click **Make Inactive**.

When "Inactive" is selected, the user is logged out of the system, and receives an error message if they try to log back in. The user no longer appears in the channel members list. They are removed from the Direct Message "More" menu, but the Direct Message channel remains open for all users with it in the sidebar until it is closed. In the "Manage Members" list and the users list in the System Console, the user shows as "Inactive".

Because Mattermost is designed as a system-of-record, there is not an option to delete users from the Mattermost system, as such an operation could compromise the integrity of message archives.

An Inactive account can also be reactivated from the System Console. When reactivated, the Inactive Account rejoins the public channels and private groups that it previously belonged to.

Removing a User from a Team or Leaving a Team
---------------------------------------------

Remove from Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Any Team Administrator has the ability to remove a user from a team by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Manage Members**, and selecting **Remove From Team** in the dropdown menu beside a user entry.

When a user is removed from a team, the team will no longer show up in their team sidebar. If they currently have the team open, they are redirected to the first team that appears on their team sidebar. If they didn't belong to any other teams, the user is sent to the team selection page.

Removing a user from the team does not make the account Inactive. The user will still be able to sign in to the site, and join other teams. They will also be able to rejoin the team they were removed from if they receive another invite, or if the team is set to ["Allow any user with an account on this server to join this team"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team). If the user does rejoin the team, they will no longer belong to the channels they were previously a part of, and they will lose all Admin privileges if they had them previously.

A System Administrator can also remove users from teams by going to **System Console > Users**, and selecting the dropdown beside a user entry and clicking **Manage Teams**.

Leaving a Team
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Users can also choose to remove themselves from a team, by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Leave Team**. This will remove the user from the team, and from all public channels and private groups on the team.

They will only be able to rejoin the team if it is set to ["Allow any user with an account on this server to join this team"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team) team, or if they receive a new invite. If they do rejoin, they will no longer be a part of their old public channels and private groups.
