source/help/getting-started/managing-members.md, before:

# Managing Members  
___

## Inviting Team Members

If user creation is enabled by the System Admin, there are two methods to invite new members after team creation: sending direct invites and sharing the team invite link.

If a user already has an account on the site but they are not on your team, you can also send them an invitation. If they are signed in, they will be automatically added to your team when they click the invitation link.

#### Direct Invites  

Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your teams server directly to the invited members email address. A link within the invitation email directs the users to an account creation page.

From the three dot **Main Menu** in the Mattermost header, select **Invite New Member**. Enter a new members email address along with their first and last name. Click **Add another** to send more direct invites from the same dialog.

#### Team Invite Link  

The team invite link is a unique URL that directs users to an account creation page for your team. Your team invite link can be used by any number of users and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team or System Admin via **Team Settings** > **General** > **Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

From the three dot **Main Menu** in the Mattermost header, select **Get Team Invite Link**. Copy the link and share it with users you'd like to invite to the team.

## User Roles  

There are four types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Members and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Administrators can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.  

#### Member 

This is the default role given to users when they join a team. Members have basic permissions on the Mattermost team.

#### Team Admin 

When a team is first created, the person who set it up is made a Team Administrator. It is a team specific role, meaning that someone can be a Team Admin for one team but only a Member on another team. Team Administrators have the following privileges: 

- Access to the "Team Settings" menu from the team site main menu
- Ability to change the team name and import data from Slack export files
- Access to the "Manage Members" menu, where they can control whether team members are "Members" or "Team Administrators" 

#### System Admin

The first user added to a newly installed Mattermost system is assigned the System Admin role.

The System Admin is typically a member of the IT staff and has all the privileges of a Team Admin, along with the following additional privileges: 

- Access to the System Console from the main menu in any team site
- Ability to change any setting on the Mattermost server available in the System Console
- Ability to promote and demote other users to and from the System Admin role
- Ability to make a user account Inactive and to reactivate an Inactive account
 

#### Inactive 

A System Administrator has the ability to make a user account Inactive by going to **System Console** > **Teams**, and selecting a team to manage. From their they can go to the **User** page for the team, and manage a user's role. 

When "Inactive" is selected, the user will no longer be able to log into the system. 

Because Mattermost is designed as a system-of-record, there is not an option to delete users from the Mattermost system, as such an operation could compromise the integrity of message archives. 

An Inactive account can also be reactivated from the System Console.

Commit message:

Add Remove from team/Leave team

source/help/getting-started/managing-members.md, after:

# Managing Members  
___

## Inviting Team Members

If user creation is enabled by the System Admin, there are two methods to invite new members after team creation: sending direct invites and sharing the team invite link.

If a user already has an account on the site but they are not on your team, you can also send them an invitation. If they are signed in, they will be automatically added to your team when they click the invitation link.

#### Direct Invites  

Direct invites are invitation emails sent from your teams server directly to the invited members email address. A link within the invitation email directs the users to an account creation page.

From the three dot **Main Menu** in the Mattermost header, select **Invite New Member**. Enter a new members email address along with their first and last name. Click **Add another** to send more direct invites from the same dialog.

#### Team Invite Link  

The team invite link is a unique URL that directs users to an account creation page for your team. Your team invite link can be used by any number of users and does not change unless it is re-generated by a Team or System Admin via **Team Settings** > **General** > **Invite Code**. For example, the team invite link can be included in a company wide email to invite all employees to join a Mattermost team.

From the three dot **Main Menu** in the Mattermost header, select **Get Team Invite Link**. Copy the link and share it with users you'd like to invite to the team.

## User Roles  

There are four types of user roles with different permission levels in Mattermost: System Admins, Team Admins, Members and Inactive accounts. To view a list of users on the team and what their roles are, Team Administrators can go to the three dot **Main Menu** and select **Manage Members**.  

#### Member 

This is the default role given to users when they join a team. Members have basic permissions on the Mattermost team.

#### Team Admin 

When a team is first created, the person who set it up is made a Team Administrator. It is a team specific role, meaning that someone can be a Team Admin for one team but only a Member on another team. Team Administrators have the following privileges: 

- Access to the "Team Settings" menu from the team site main menu
- Ability to change the team name and import data from Slack export files
- Access to the "Manage Members" menu, where they can control whether team members are "Members" or "Team Administrators" 

#### System Admin

The first user added to a newly installed Mattermost system is assigned the System Admin role.

The System Admin is typically a member of the IT staff and has all the privileges of a Team Admin, along with the following additional privileges: 

- Access to the System Console from the main menu in any team site
- Ability to change any setting on the Mattermost server available in the System Console
- Ability to promote and demote other users to and from the System Admin role
- Ability to make a user account Inactive and to reactivate an Inactive account

#### Inactive 

A System Administrator has the ability to make a user account Inactive by going to **System Console > Teams**, and selecting a team to manage. From there they can go to the **User** page for the team, and manage a user's role. 

When "Inactive" is selected, the user will no longer be able to log into the system. 

Because Mattermost is designed as a system-of-record, there is not an option to delete users from the Mattermost system, as such an operation could compromise the integrity of message archives. 

An Inactive account can also be reactivated from the System Console.

## Removing a User from a Team or Leaving a Team

#### Remove from Team

Any Team Administrator has the ability to remove a user from a team by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Manage Members**, and selecting **Remove From Team** in the dropdown menu beside a user entry. 

When a user is removed from a team, if they currently have the team open they will be sent back to the team selection page. The team will no longer show up in their teams list. 

Removing a user from the team does not make the account Inactive. The user will still be able to sign in to the site, and join other teams. They will also be able to rejoin the team they were removed from if they receive another invite, or if the team is an ["Open"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team) team. If the user does rejoin the team, they will no longer belong to the channels they were previously a part of. 

A System Administrator can also remove users from teams by going to **System Console > Teams**, and selecting a team to manage. From there, they can go to the **User** page for the team and select **Remove From Team** in the dropdown beside a user entry. 

#### Leaving a Team

Users can also choose to remove themselves from a team, by going to the three dot **Main Menu > Leave Team**. This will remove the user from the team, and from all public channels and private groups on the team. 

They will only be able to rejoin the team if it is an ["Open"](http://docs.mattermost.com/help/settings/team-settings.html#allow-anyone-to-join-this-team) team, or if they receive a new invite. If they do rejoin, they will no longer be a part of their old public channels and private groups.
