source/help/getting-started/organizing-conversations.md, before:

# Organizing Conversations
_____

## Channel Types
Channels are used to organize conversations across different topics. There are three types of channels: Public Channels, Private Groups, and Direct Messages.

#### Public Channels
Public Channels are open to everyone on a team. New team members are automatically a part of two Public Channels: Town Square and Off-Topic.  

#### Private Groups
Private Groups are for sensitive topics and are only visible to select team members. Any member of a Private Group can add additional members. Group members can choose to leave at any time, but only the group owner or Team Admin can remove other members. 

#### Direct Messages
Direct Messages are for conversations between two team members. These conversations are only visible to the team members involved. The online status indicator next to team members names in the direct message list displays: online (active browser), away (no browser activity for 5 minutes), and offline (browser closed).

## Managing Channels
Channels can be created, joined, renamed, left and deleted.

#### Creating a Channel
Create a new Public Channel or Private Group by selecting the **+** symbol next to the *Channels* or *Private Groups* header on the left hand side. To start a direct message thread, click **More** at the bottom of the *Direct Messages* list to view a list of team members you can message.

#### Joining a Channel
Click **More** at the bottom of the *Channels* list to view a list of Public Channels you can join. To join a Private Group you need to be added by a member of that group.

#### Renaming a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Rename Channel**. Channel owners can rename the Public Channels or Private Groups they’ve created. Team and System Admins can rename any channel or group.

#### Leaving a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Leave Channel**. Any team member who leaves a Private Group must be added back by a group member if they wish to rejoin. Team members will not receive mention notifications from channels of which they are not members.

#### Deleting a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Delete Channel**. Channel owners can delete the Public Channels or Private Groups they’ve created. Team and System Admins can delete any channel or group.

When a channel is deleted it is removed from the user interface, but an archived copy exists on the server in case it is needed for audit reasons later. Because of this, the URL of a newly created channel cannot be the same URL name as a deleted channel.

Commit message:

Update DM section of organizing-conversations

source/help/getting-started/organizing-conversations.md, after:

# Organizing Conversations
_____

## Channel Types
Channels are used to organize conversations across different topics. There are three types of channels: Public Channels, Private Groups, and Direct Messages.

#### Public Channels
Public Channels are open to everyone on a team. New team members are automatically a part of two Public Channels: Town Square and Off-Topic.  

#### Private Groups
Private Groups are for sensitive topics and are only visible to select team members. Any member of a Private Group can add additional members. Group members can choose to leave at any time, but only the group owner or Team Admin can remove other members. 

#### Direct Messages
Direct Messages are for conversations between two users. These conversations are only visible to the people involved. They are special because they are not team specific - you can message any user on the site by going to the Direct Messages "More" menu, and choosing "All Users" in the dropdown menu there. If this option is not available, it has been turned off by your System Administrator.

When you open a Direct Message channel with someone who is not on your current team, they will show up in the bottom section of the Direct Messages list under the "Outside this team" indicator. When you switch between teams, the list will update to reflect whether or not users belong to the current team. 

There is also an online status indicator next to the names in the direct message list. It displays: online (active browser), away (no browser activity for 5 minutes), and offline (browser closed).

## Managing Channels
Channels can be created, joined, renamed, left and deleted.

#### Creating a Channel
Create a new Public Channel or Private Group by selecting the **+** symbol next to the *Channels* or *Private Groups* header on the left hand side. To start a direct message thread, click **More** at the bottom of the *Direct Messages* list to view a list of team members you can message.

#### Joining a Channel
Click **More** at the bottom of the *Channels* list to view a list of Public Channels you can join. To join a Private Group you need to be added by a member of that group.

#### Renaming a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Rename Channel**. Channel owners can rename the Public Channels or Private Groups they’ve created. Team and System Admins can rename any channel or group.

#### Leaving a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Leave Channel**. Any team member who leaves a Private Group must be added back by a group member if they wish to rejoin. Team members will not receive mention notifications from channels of which they are not members.

#### Deleting a Channel
Click the channel name at the top of the center pane to access the drop-down menu, then click **Delete Channel**. Channel owners can delete the Public Channels or Private Groups they’ve created. Team and System Admins can delete any channel or group.

When a channel is deleted it is removed from the user interface, but an archived copy exists on the server in case it is needed for audit reasons later. Because of this, the URL of a newly created channel cannot be the same URL name as a deleted channel.
