source/help/getting-started/signing-in.md, before:

# Signing in 
_____

This documentation refers to Mattermost v3.0+. For v2.2, see [archived documentation](http://docs.mattermost.com/archives/docs-v2.2.html#signing-in). 

You can sign in to your team from the root page of your Mattermost site `https://domain.com/`. After signing in, you will be able to view a list of your teams and select which one to open. 

## Sign In Methods
There are several options for signing in to your team depending on how your System Admin has configured your server. 

#### Email Address or Username Sign In  

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in with the username or email address used to create your account.

If you have forgotten your password, you can reset it by clicking **I forgot my password** on the sign in screen, or contact your System Admin for help resetting your password. 

#### GitLab Single-Sign-On (SSO)

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in using your GitLab account using a one-click sign in option. 

#### LDAP Sign In (Enterprise Edition)

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in with your LDAP credentials. This lets you use the same username and password for Mattermost that you use for various other company services. 

## Switching Teams

You can switch between teams you have joined using the **Main Menu**, accessed by clicking the three dots in the top header of any team site on the server.

## Logging Out

You can log out from the **Main Menu**, which is accessed by clicking the three dots in the top header on the left side of the screen. Clicking "Logout" logs you out of all teams that are signed in and open in your browser.

## iOS Setup

Your Mattermost teams can be accessed on iOS mobile devices by downloading the Mattermost App.

1. Open the App Store on your Apple device running iOS 9.0 or later.
2. Search for "Mattermost" and click **GET** to download the App for free.
3. Open Mattermost from your homescreen and input your team and account information to login:
    1. Enter Server URL: This is the web address you go to when you want to access Mattermost. You can find the Server URL by asking your System Admin or by looking at the address bar in a desktop browser tab with Mattermost open. It is in the form `https://domain.com/`.
    2. Sign in to Mattermost: This is your account login information as decribed by one of the sign in methods above.

Commit message:

Added Android Setup (#141)
* Added Android Setup

* Added Google Playstore and iOS app store links

source/help/getting-started/signing-in.md, after:

# Signing in 
_____

This documentation refers to Mattermost v3.0+. For v2.2, see [archived documentation](http://docs.mattermost.com/archives/docs-v2.2.html#signing-in). 

You can sign in to your team from the root page of your Mattermost site `https://domain.com/`. After signing in, you will be able to view a list of your teams and select which one to open. 

## Sign In Methods
There are several options for signing in to your team depending on how your System Admin has configured your server. 

#### Email Address or Username Sign In  

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in with the username or email address used to create your account.

If you have forgotten your password, you can reset it by clicking **I forgot my password** on the sign in screen, or contact your System Admin for help resetting your password. 

#### GitLab Single-Sign-On (SSO)

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in using your GitLab account using a one-click sign in option. 

#### LDAP Sign In (Enterprise Edition)

When enabled by your System Admin, you can sign in with your LDAP credentials. This lets you use the same username and password for Mattermost that you use for various other company services. 

## Switching Teams

You can switch between teams you have joined using the **Main Menu**, accessed by clicking the three dots in the top header of any team site on the server.

## Logging Out

You can log out from the **Main Menu**, which is accessed by clicking the three dots in the top header on the left side of the screen. Clicking "Logout" logs you out of all teams that are signed in and open in your browser.

## iOS Setup

Your Mattermost teams can be accessed on iOS mobile devices by downloading the Mattermost App.

1. Open the [App Store](https://geo.itunes.apple.com/us/app/mattermost/id984966508?mt=8) on your Apple device running iOS 9.0 or later.
2. Search for "Mattermost" and click **GET** to download the App for free.
3. Open Mattermost from your homescreen and input your team and account information to login:
    1. Enter Server URL: This is the web address you go to when you want to access Mattermost. You can find the Server URL by asking your System Admin or by looking at the address bar in a desktop browser tab with Mattermost open. It is in the form `https://domain.com/`.
    2. Sign in to Mattermost: This is your account login information as decribed by one of the sign in methods above. 

## Android Setup

Your Mattermost teams can be accessed on Android mobile devices by downloading the Mattermost App.

1. Open the [Google Play Store](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.mattermost.mattermost&hl=en) on your Android device.
2. Search for "Mattermost" and click **INSTALL** to download the App for free.
3. Open Mattermost from your homescreen and input your team and account information to login:
    1. Enter Server URL: This is the web address you go to when you want to access Mattermost. You can find the Server URL by asking your System Admin or by looking at the address bar in a desktop browser tab with Mattermost open. It is in the form `https://domain.com/`.
    2. Sign in to Mattermost: This is your account login information as decribed by one of the sign in methods above.
