source/deployment/on-boarding.md, before:

# Administrator Tasks 

This document provides instructions for common administrator tasks

##### **DO NOT manipulate the Mattermost database**
  - In particular, DO NOT manually delete data from the database directly. Mattermost is designed as a continuous archive and cannot be supported after manual manipulation.
  - If you need to permanently delete a team or user please use the [Command Line Tool](http://docs.mattermost.com/administration/command-line-tools.html).

### Common Tasks

##### Creating System Administrator account from commandline
  - If the System Administrator account becomes unavailable, a person leaving the organization for example, you can set a new system admin from the commandline using `./platform -assign_role -team_name="yourteam" -email="you@example.com" -role="system_admin"`. 
  - After assigning the role the user needs to log out and log back in before the System Administrator role is applied.

##### Deactivating a user 

  - Team Admin or System Admin can go to **Main Menu** > **Manage Members** > **Make Inactive** to deactivate a user, which removes them from the team. 
  - To preserve audit history, users are never deleted from the system. It is highly recommended that System Administrators do not attempt to delete users manually from the database, as this may compromise system integrity and ability to upgrade in future.

Commit message:

Noting deactivating users revokes sessions

source/deployment/on-boarding.md, after:

# Administrator Tasks 

This document provides instructions for common administrator tasks

##### **DO NOT manipulate the Mattermost database**
  - In particular, DO NOT manually delete data from the database directly. Mattermost is designed as a continuous archive and cannot be supported after manual manipulation.
  - If you need to permanently delete a team or user please use the [Command Line Tool](http://docs.mattermost.com/administration/command-line-tools.html).

### Common Tasks

##### Creating System Administrator account from commandline
  - If the System Administrator account becomes unavailable, a person leaving the organization for example, you can set a new system admin from the commandline using `./platform -assign_role -team_name="yourteam" -email="you@example.com" -role="system_admin"`. 
  - After assigning the role the user needs to log out and log back in before the System Administrator role is applied.

##### Deactivating a user 

  - Team Admin or System Admin can go to **Main Menu** > **Manage Members** > **Make Inactive** to deactivate a user, which removes them from the team and revokes any active sessions. 
  - To preserve audit history, users are never deleted from the system. It is highly recommended that System Administrators do not attempt to delete users manually from the database, as this may compromise system integrity and ability to upgrade in future.
