source/boards/accessing-boards.rst, before:

Accessing your Boards
=====================

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Boards currently uses channel-based permissions, meaning that only members of the associated channel can access (read/write) the boards for that channel.

You can use this to create private boards:

1. Create or join a Private channel, Group Message, or Direct Message.
2. Select the **Boards** icon in the channel header.
3. Create a board.

Select the Boards icon in the channel header or Product Menu button to open the Boards workspace for the current channel, Direct Message, or Group Message - which can only be accessed by members of the channel or message.

You can share a read-only version of any board with anyone who has the link.

Commit message:

boards v3: 6.0 (#5091)
* Update accessing-boards.rst

Updated to include dashboard.

* Update getting-started.rst

* Create views-and-sorting.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update templates.rst

* Create work-with-cards.rst

* Update work-with-cards.rst

* Update views-and-sorting.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update boards.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

Added tabbed content.

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update boards.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

Fixed tab formatting

* Update getting-started.rst

source/boards/accessing-boards.rst, after:

Access your Boards
==================

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

You can access all your boards as well as boards in channels you belong to in the Boards dashboard. Select **Boards** from the Product menu in the top-left corner of Mattermost to open the dashboard and switcher. You can also select the Boards icon in the channel header to open the board for the current channel, Direct Message, or Group Message.

Boards uses channel-based permissions, meaning that all members of the associated channel can access (read/write) the boards for that channel.

To create private boards: 

1. Create or join a Private channel, Group Message, or Direct Message.
2. Select the **Boards** icon in the channel header.
3. Create a board.

You can share a read-only version of any board with anyone who has the link.
