source/boards/getting-started.rst, before:

Getting Started
===============

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Mattermost Boards (formerly known as Focalboard) is included in the Mattermost Cloud workspace, enabled by default, and upgraded automatically.

For self-managed deployments, Focalboard is available in the Plugin Marketplace.

1. As a System Admin, go to **Main Menu > Plugin Marketplace**.
2. Search for **Boards**.
3. Select **Install** if not yet installed, then select **Configure** to enable.
4. From the plugin configuration page, set **Enable Plugin** to **true**.
5. Select **Save** to enable the plugin.

Commit message:

boards v3: 6.0 (#5091)
* Update accessing-boards.rst

Updated to include dashboard.

* Update getting-started.rst

* Create views-and-sorting.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update templates.rst

* Create work-with-cards.rst

* Update work-with-cards.rst

* Update views-and-sorting.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update boards.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

Added tabbed content.

* Update getting-started.rst

* Update boards.rst

* Update getting-started.rst

Fixed tab formatting

* Update getting-started.rst

source/boards/getting-started.rst, after:

Getting Started
===============

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Mattermost Boards (formerly known as Focalboard) is accessible from the product switcher in the top left corner of Mattermost.

.. tabs::
   
  .. tab:: Mattermost v6.0 onwards
   
      If you're using Mattermost 6.0, select the Product menu in the top left corner of Mattermost to activate Boards. The Boards dashboard is where you can get
      started, where you'll find all the boards you have access to, and also where the workspace switcher is. Once you've activated Boards, you'll see a tab at the       top of Mattermost called **Boards**. Select that for quick access to your dashboard.
  
  .. tab:: Mattermost v5.39 and earlier

      For self-hosted deployments using versions 5.38 and earlier, Boards is available in the Marketplace.

      1. As a System Admin, go to **Main Menu > Marketplace**.
      2. Search for **Boards**.
      3. Select **Install** if not yet installed, then select **Configure** to enable.
      4. From the plugin configuration page, set **Enable Plugin** to **true**.
      5. Select **Save** to enable the plugin.

Configuration
-------------

Board sharing is disabled by default. This means that the "Share Board" option is not available in the board menu. To enable board sharing open **Product menu > System Console > Plugins > Boards**.
