source/boards/templates.rst, before:

Templates
=========

Templates provide you with a predefined structure so that you can get started quickly.

Board templates 
---------------

Board templates include:

* Meeting Notes
* Personal Goals
* Project Tasks
* Roadmap
* Empty Board

If none of those boards fit your use case, you can use a blank template and customize it as needed. To create a board template select **+ Add Board**, then select **+ New template**. To turn an existing board into a template, hover over the board title in the sidebar. Select the options menu **(…)**, then select **New template from board**.

Card templates
---------------

Each board can have a set of card templates. To create a new card template, click on the dropdown by the “New” button and select “+ New template”.

A card editor opens with a banner indicating this is a template. You can new create new cards using this new template.

Alternatively, you can turn any card into a template:

1. Open the card editor
2. Click on the options menu (… at the top right)
3. Select “New template from card”

Commit message:

Update Boards content/v2 (#5034)
* Update accessing-boards.rst

* Update sharing-boards.rst

* Update templates.rst

* Delete working-with-views.rst

* Update boards.rst

* Update working-with-boards.rst

* Update working-with-boards.rst

* Update working-with-boards.rst

* Update source/boards/templates.rst

* Update source/boards/working-with-boards.rst

source/boards/templates.rst, after:

Templates
=========

Templates provide you with a predefined structure so that you can get started quickly. Alternatively, you can create your own board and card templates.

Board templates 
---------------

Board templates include:

* **Meeting Notes**: Meeting notes use default types (Ad Hoc, Standup, Weekly Sync) and can be sorted by type or table view. 
* **New board template**: This template includes statuses (Next Up, In Progress, Completed, Archived) and priority (High, Medium, Low).
* **Personal Goals**: Personal Goals are sorted by status (To Do, Doing, Done) and can be viewed by date.
* **Personal Tasks**: Personal Tasks are sorted by status (To Do, Doing, Done) but do not have a date view.
* **Project Tasks**: This template includes statuses (Next Up, In Progress, Completed, Archived) and priority (High, Medium, Low).
* **Roadmap**: This template allows you to filter using Bugs, By Sprint, By Satus, Epics, Tasks, Tasks by Status. It also includes a priority filter.
* **Empty Board**: If none of those boards fit your use case, you can use a blank template and customize it as needed.

Editing board templates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can rename all of the fields provided, hide them, delete them, and change the default color.

To create a board template select **+ Add Board**, then select **+ New template**. To turn an existing board into a template, hover over the board title in the sidebar. Select the options menu **(…)**, then select **New template from board**.

Card templates
--------------

Each board can have a set of card templates. To create a new card template:

1. Open the board you're adding the card to.
2. Select the drop-down arrow next to **New**, then select **Empty card**.

Alternatively, you can turn any card into a template:

1. Open the card you want to use as a template.
2. Select the options menu **...** in the top-right corner of the card.
3. Select **New template from card**.
4. Edit the card as needed, including a helpful name.
5. Close the card using the **X** in the top left corner.
6. Select the drop-down arrow next to **New**, then select the card you just created.

The card template is applicable only to the board in which it's created and isn't available in other boards in your workspace.
