Log in
=======

Your system admin will provide you with user credentials and a Mattermost URL. Log into your Mattermost instance by:

1.	Opening a web browser that Mattermost supports.
2.	Copying your Mattermost instance URL into the browser address field.
3.	Entering your user credentials. These may be email and password or third-party credentials through another system.

Once you’ve successfully logged in to Mattermost, consider bookmarking Mattermost in your web browser so that it’s easy to access in the future.

Learn how to :doc:`log out </use/get-started/log-out>` of Mattermost securely.

Mattermost desktop app
----------------------

Access the full power of Mattermost using the Mattermost desktop app, available for Windows, macOS, and Linux operating systems. The desktop app offers additional features beyond the browser-based experience.

Your system admin may install the desktop app for you. Otherwise, download and install the Mattermost desktop app from the App Store (macOS), Microsoft Store (Windows), or by using a package manager (Linux). 

Mattermost mobile app
---------------------

Stay connected from anywhere with the Mattermost mobile app. Receive notifications, join discussions, share updates quickly, and ensure you’re never out of the loop when you’re away from your desk.

Your system admin may install the mobile app for you. Otherwise, download and install the Mattermost mobile app from the App Store (macOS) or Microsoft Store (Windows).

Reset your password
-------------------

If you’ve forgotten your password, reset it on the Mattermost login screen by selecting **Forgot your password?** Contact your system admin for additional assistance.

Multi-factor authentication
---------------------------

Multi-factor authentication (MFA) is a way to make your Mattermost account more safe by prompting you to prove who you are using more than one type of information before you can access your account.

1. Download and install an MFA passcode generation app, such as Google Authenticator or a similar app.
2. Select your profile picture.
3. Select **Profile > Security > Multi-Factor Authentication > Edit**.
4. Select **Add MFA to Account**.
5. Scan the QR code or enter the Secret provided by Mattermost into the authenticator app.
6. In Mattermost, enter the MFA Code generated by the authenticator app.
7. Select **Save**.

When MFA is enabled
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your system admin enables multi-factor authentication for your Mattermost instance, you have the option of setting up MFA for your Mattermost user account. You can also disable MFA for your account.

When MFA is enforced
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If your system admin enforces multi-factor authentication, you are required to set up multi-factor authentication for your Mattermost account, and you can’t disable MFA.

-	When you attempt to log in to Mattermost, you’re directed to the multi-factor authentication setup page. 
-	You won’t be able to access Mattermost until multi-factor setup is complete. 
-	If you encounter issues setting up multi-factor authentication, contact your Mattermost system admin for assistance.
