source/install/ee-install.rst, before:

..  _ee-install:

Enterprise Edition Installation
===============================

Installing a New License Key
---------------

To unlock the features of Mattermost Enterprise Edition:

1. Install the latest version of `Mattermost Team Edition from any install guide. <https://mattermost.org/download>`__
2. Follow the procedure to `upgrade Mattermost Team Edition to Mattermost Enterprise Edition. <http://docs.mattermost.com/administration/upgrade.html#upgrade-team-edition-to-enterprise-edition>`__
3. In the **System Console**, go to **OTHER** > **Edition and License** > **License Key** and upload the license key file you received by email when you purchased a subscription to Mattermost Enterprise Edition.

The **Edition** and **License** sections on the page should update to confirm your system has been updated to the Enterprise Edition.


Changing a License Key
----------------------

To change an existing license key on an Enterprise Edition server to a new license key:

1. In the **System Console**, go to **OTHER** > **Edition and License** > **License Key** and click "Remove Enterprise License and Downgrade Server". This clears the license from the server and refreshes the System Console. 
2. In the **System Console**, go to **OTHER** > **Edition and License** > **License Key** and upload the new license key file.
   
The **Edition** and **License** sections on the page should update to show the capabilities of your new license key.

Commit message:

Add EE install instructions (#200)
* Adding Enterprise Ubuntu install instructions

* Simplifying Ubuntu Team install

* Update ee-prod-ubuntu.rst

* Create ee_prod-rhel-7.rst

* Update ee_prod-rhel-7.rst

* Create ee_prod-rhel-6.rst

* Update ee-install.rst

* Update upgrade.md

* Update ee-install.rst

* Update index.rst

source/install/ee-install.rst, after:

..  _ee-install:

Enterprise Edition Installation
===============================

Enterprise Edition can be installed either directly or via upgrade from Team Editon.

Installing Enterprise Edition 
---------------

To install Mattermost Enterprise Edition directly please use one of the following guides: 

1. `Production Enterprise Edition on Ubunutu 14 <http://docs.mattermost.com/install/ee_prod-ubuntu.html>`_
2. `Production Enterprise Edition on RHEL 7.1 <http://docs.mattermost.com/install/ee_prod-rhel-7.html>`_
3. `Production Enterprise Edition on RHEL 6.6 <http://docs.mattermost.com/install/ee_prod-rhel-6.html>`_

Upgrading to Enterprise Edition from Mattermost Team Edition 
---------------

1. Follow the procedure to `upgrade Team Edition to Enterprise Edition. <http://docs.mattermost.com/administration/upgrade.html#upgrade-team-edition-to-enterprise-edition>`_

If you need to migrate Team Edition prior to install, `please follow the migration guide. <http://docs.mattermost.com/administration/migrating.html>`_

Changing a License Key
----------------------

To change an existing license key on an Enterprise Edition server to a new license key:

1. In the **System Console**, go to **OTHER** > **Edition and License** > **License Key** and click "Remove Enterprise License and Downgrade Server". This clears the license from the server and refreshes the System Console. 
2. In the **System Console**, go to **OTHER** > **Edition and License** > **License Key** and upload the new license key file.
   
The **Edition** and **License** sections on the page should update to show the capabilities of your new license key.
