source/install/install-rhel-7-postgresql.rst, before:

..  _install-rhel-7-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the PostgreSQL 9.4 Yum repository.

  For RHEL 7
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-redhat94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For CentOS 7
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-centos94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For Scientific Linux
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-sl94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For Oracle
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-oraclelinux-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

3. Install the Yum repository from the file that you downloaded.

  ``sudo yum localinstall pgdg-*-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

4. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install postgresql94-server postgresql94-contrib``

5. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo /usr/pgsql-9.4/bin/postgresql94-setup initdb``

6. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql-9.4``

7. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql-9.4``

8. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -iu postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost WITH ENCODING 'UTF8' LC_COLLATE='en_US.UTF-8' LC_CTYPE='en_US.UTF-8' TEMPLATE=template0;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/etc/postgresql/9.5/main/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql-9.4``

16. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following lines:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        ident``

    c. Change ``peer`` and ``ident`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

17. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql-9.4``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.

Commit message:

Updated centos 7 to include postgres 13 docs.

source/install/install-rhel-7-postgresql.rst, after:

..  _install-rhel-7-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the PostgreSQL 13 Yum repository. For more detailed install instructions visit the PostgreSQL docs site [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/).

  ``sudo yum install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-7-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm``

3. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install -y postgresql13-server``

4. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo /usr/pgsql-13/bin/postgresql-13-setup initdb``

5. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql-13``

6. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql-13``

7. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -iu postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost WITH ENCODING 'UTF8' LC_COLLATE='en_US.UTF-8' LC_CTYPE='en_US.UTF-8' TEMPLATE=template0;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql-13``

16. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following lines:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        ident``

    c. Change ``peer`` and ``ident`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

17. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql-13``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.
