source/install/install-rhel-8-postgresql.rst, before:

..  _install-rhel-8-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.


2. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install postgresql-server postgresql-contrib``

3. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo postgresql-setup initdb``

4. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql``

5. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql``

6. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -iu postgres``

7. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

8.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost WITH ENCODING 'UTF8' LC_COLLATE='en_US.UTF-8' LC_CTYPE='en_US.UTF-8' TEMPLATE=template0;``

9.  Create the Mattermost user *mmuser*.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

10.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

11. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

12. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

13. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/etc/postgresql/main/postgresql.conf`` as *root* in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql``

14. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine:**

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following lines:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        ident``

    c. Change ``peer`` and ``ident`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines:**

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf`` as *root* in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

15. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql``

16. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.

Commit message:

Added note to ubuntu rhel 8 about confirming the postgres version

source/install/install-rhel-8-postgresql.rst, after:

..  _install-rhel-8-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.


2. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install postgresql-server postgresql-contrib``
  
  Confirm this version is PostgresSQL version 10 or higher. You can do this by running ``psql -V``. If this is not version 10 or higher you can reference the PostgreSQL documentation [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/) to install an updated version of PostgreSQL.

3. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo postgresql-setup initdb``

4. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql``

5. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql``

6. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -iu postgres``

7. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

8.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost WITH ENCODING 'UTF8' LC_COLLATE='en_US.UTF-8' LC_CTYPE='en_US.UTF-8' TEMPLATE=template0;``

9.  Create the Mattermost user *mmuser*.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

10.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

11. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

12. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

13. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/etc/postgresql/main/postgresql.conf`` as *root* in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql``

14. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine:**

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following lines:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        ident``

    c. Change ``peer`` and ``ident`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``
      
      ``host    all             all         ::1/128        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines:**

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/data/pg_hba.conf`` as *root* in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

15. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql``

16. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.
