source/install/install-ubuntu-1604-postgresql.rst, before:

.. _install-ubuntu-1604-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database Server
=====================================

Install and set up the database for use by the Mattermost server. You can install either PostgreSQL or MySQL.

Assume that the IP address of this server is 10.10.10.1

**To install PostgreSQL on Ubuntu Server 16.04:**

1. Log in to the server that will host the database and issue the following command:

  ``sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib``

  When the installation is complete, the PostgreSQL server is running, and a Linux user account called *postgres* has been created.

2. Log in to the *postgres* account.

  ``sudo --login --user postgres``

3. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

4.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

5.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

6.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

7. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

8. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

9. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/etc/postgresql/9.5/main/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  b. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql``

10. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/etc/postgresql/9.5/main/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following line:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``

    c. Change ``peer`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/etc/postgresql/9.5/main/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

11. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql``

12. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.
  
13. (Optional) If you don't want to enter your password at each login, you can use a ``.pgpass`` file . It is a special file which has to be assigned ``0600`` in permissions otherwise it will not work. One can also pass the location of the file using the ``PGPASSFILE`` env variable.

This leaves the security to the user running the application. If you run it as a service, then you need *sudo* permissions to start a service file. As a result only *root* user has read-write access. 
 
For further info on the pgpass file please refer to `the official PostgreSQL documentation   <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/9.4/libpq-pgpass.html>`_

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.

Commit message:

Added note to ubuntu 16.04 about confirming the postgres version

source/install/install-ubuntu-1604-postgresql.rst, after:

.. _install-ubuntu-1604-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database Server
=====================================

Install and set up the database for use by the Mattermost server. You can install either PostgreSQL or MySQL.

Assume that the IP address of this server is 10.10.10.1

**To install PostgreSQL on Ubuntu Server 16.04:**

1. Log in to the server that will host the database and issue the following command:

  ``sudo apt-get install postgresql postgresql-contrib``

  When the installation is complete, the PostgreSQL server is running, and a Linux user account called *postgres* has been created. 
  
  Confirm this version is PostgresSQL version 10 or higher. You can do this by running ``psql -V``. If this is not version 10 or higher you can reference the PostgreSQL documentation [here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/ubuntu/) to install an updated version of PostgreSQL.

2. Log in to the *postgres* account.

  ``sudo --login --user postgres``

3. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

4.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

5.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

6.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

7. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

8. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

9. (Optional) If you use a different server for your database and the Mattermost app server, you may allow PostgreSQL to listen on all assigned IP Addresses. To do so, open ``/etc/postgresql/{version}/main/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor. As a best practice, ensure that only the Mattermost server is able to connect to the PostgreSQL port using a firewall.

  a. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  b. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo systemctl restart postgresql``

10. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/etc/postgresql/{version}/main/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following line:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``

    c. Change ``peer`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/etc/postgresql/{version}/main/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

11. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql``

12. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.
  
13. (Optional) If you don't want to enter your password at each login, you can use a ``.pgpass`` file . It is a special file which has to be assigned ``0600`` in permissions otherwise it will not work. One can also pass the location of the file using the ``PGPASSFILE`` env variable.

This leaves the security to the user running the application. If you run it as a service, then you need *sudo* permissions to start a service file. As a result only *root* user has read-write access. 
 
For further info on the pgpass file please refer to `the official PostgreSQL documentation   <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/>`_

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.
