source/install/install-ios-app.rst, before:

iOS Setup
=========

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Your Mattermost teams can be accessed on iOS mobile devices via the Mattermost Mobile App.

1. Open the App Store on your Apple device running iOS 12.1 or later.
2. Search for "Mattermost" and select **GET** to download the app.
3. Open Mattermost from your homescreen and enter your team and account information to log in:

   a. **Enter Server URL:** This is the web address you go to when you want to access Mattermost. It's in the format ``https://domain.com``. You can find the Server URL by asking your System Admin, or by looking at the address bar when your Mattermost browser tab is selected. 
   b. **Sign in to Mattermost:** This is your account login information as described by one of the sign in methods above.

.. include:: ../upgrade/upgrading-to-v60.rst

Commit message:

Updates the AWS Beanstalk instructions (#5227)
* Update document for changes in Beanstalk

Elastic Beanstalk app creation flow has been updated for the latest changes.
The Dockerrun.aws.json link has also been updated to the mattermost-docker-preview repo.

* iOS app install & configure steps update

* iOS app install & configure additonal updates

* Apply suggestions from code review

Applied editorial suggestions to expedite PR.

Co-authored-by: Carrie Warner (Mattermost) <74422101+cwarnermm@users.noreply.github.com>

* Update source/install/install-ios-app.rst

* Update source/install/setting-up-aws-elastic-beanstalk-docker.rst

Co-authored-by: Carlos Tadeu Panato Junior <ctadeu@gmail.com>

Co-authored-by: Carrie Warner (Mattermost) <74422101+cwarnermm@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: Carlos Tadeu Panato Junior <ctadeu@gmail.com>

source/install/install-ios-app.rst, after:

iOS Setup
=========

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Your Mattermost teams can be accessed on iOS mobile devices via the Mattermost Mobile App.

1. Open the App Store on your Apple device running iOS 12.1 or later.
2. Search for "Mattermost" and select **GET** to download the app.
3. Enter your Apple ID Password or use Touch ID to proceed with the install. You may also be asked to provide an Apple Verification Code received through text/phone call, sign-in notification, or **Settings** on your trusted device.
4. Open Mattermost from your homescreen and follow the steps below to log in:

   a. **Enter Server URL:** This is the web address you go to when you want to access Mattermost. It's in the format ``https://domain.com``. You can find the Server URL by asking your System Admin, or by looking at the address bar when your Mattermost browser tab is selected. Select **Connect** to continue.
   b. Enter your **Email or Username** and **Password** provided by your Mattermost System Admin. Select **Sign in**.

.. include:: ../upgrade/upgrading-to-v60.rst
