source/install/install-rhel-6-postgresql.rst, before:

..  _install-rhel-6-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the PostgreSQL 13 Yum repository. For more detailed install instructions visit the PostgreSQL docs site `here <https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/>`_.

  ``sudo yum install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-6-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm``

3. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install -y postgresql13-server``

4. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo service postgresql-13 initdb``

5. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo chkconfig postgresql-13 on``

7. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo service postgresql-13 start``

8. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo --login --user postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. Allow Postgres to listen on all assigned IP Addresses.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo service postgresql-9.4 restart``

16. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following line:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``

    c. Change ``peer`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/13/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

17. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo service postgresql-13 reload``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.

Commit message:

fix RHEL 6 postgres docs to be version agnostic

source/install/install-rhel-6-postgresql.rst, after:

..  _install-rhel-6-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the latest PostgreSQL repository. For more detailed install instructions visit the PostgreSQL docs site `here <https://www.postgresql.org/download/linux/redhat/>`_.

  ``sudo yum install -y https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/reporpms/EL-6-x86_64/pgdg-redhat-repo-latest.noarch.rpm``

3. Install PostgreSQL version 10 or greater. Replace the contents of the ``{version}`` with the version you wish to install.

  ``sudo yum install -y postgresql{version}-server``

  **Example:**

  ``sudo yum install -y postgresql13-server``

4. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo service postgresql-{version} initdb``

5. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo chkconfig postgresql-{version} on``

7. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo service postgresql-{version} start``

8. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo --login --user postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser-password';``

  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgres=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. Allow Postgres to listen on all assigned IP Addresses.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/{version}/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:

    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:

    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

  d. Restart PostgreSQL for the change to take effect:

    ``sudo service postgresql-{version} restart``

16. Modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/{version}/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Find the following line:

      ``local   all             all                        peer``

    c. Change ``peer`` to ``trust``:

      ``local   all             all                        trust``

  **If the Mattermost server and the database are on different machines**:

    a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/{version}/data/pg_hba.conf`` as root in a text editor.

    b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *{mattermost-server-IP}* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

      ``host all all {mattermost-server-IP}/32 md5``

17. Reload PostgreSQL:

  ``sudo service postgresql-{version} reload``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.

  a. If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, use the following command:

    ``psql --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

  b. If the Mattermost server is on a different machine, log into that machine and use the following command:

    ``psql --host={postgres-server-IP} --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``

    .. note::
      You might have to install the PostgreSQL client software to use the command.

  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.
