source/install/install-rhel-71-postgresql.rst, before:

..  _install-rhel-71-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the PostgreSQL 9.4 Yum repository.

  ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-redhat94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

3. Install the Yum repository from the file that you downloaded.

  ``sudo yum localinstall pgdg-redhat94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

4. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install postgresql94-server postgresql94-contrib``

5. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo /usr/pgsql-9.4/bin/postgresql94-setup initdb``

6. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql-9.4``

7. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql-9.4``

8. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -ui postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser_password';``
  
  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgre=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. Allow Postgres to listen on all assigned IP Addresses.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:
  
    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:
  
    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

16. If the Mattermost server is on a separate machine, modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, then you can skip this step.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/pg_hba.conf`` in a text editor.

  b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *<mm-server-IP>* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

    ``host all all <mm-server-IP>/32 md5``

17. Reload Postgres database

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql-9.4``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.
  
  ``psql --host=localhost --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``
  
  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.

Commit message:

Update Postgres RPM download links
Added a link for each of the following distributions

* CentOS 7 (https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-centos94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm)
* Scientific Linux (https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-sl94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm)
* Oracle (https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-oraclelinux-9.4-3.noarch.rpm)

source/install/install-rhel-71-postgresql.rst, after:

..  _install-rhel-71-postgresql:

Installing PostgreSQL Database
==============================

1. Log in to the server that will host the database, and open a terminal window.

2. Download the PostgreSQL 9.4 Yum repository.

  For RHEL 7
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-redhat94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For CentOS 7
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-centos94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For Scientific Linux
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-sl94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``
  For Oracle
    ``curl -O https://download.postgresql.org/pub/repos/yum/9.4/redhat/rhel-7-x86_64/pgdg-oraclelinux-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

3. Install the Yum repository from the file that you downloaded.

  ``sudo yum localinstall pgdg-redhat94-9.4-3.noarch.rpm``

4. Install PostgreSQL.

  ``sudo yum install postgresql94-server postgresql94-contrib``

5. Initialize the database.

  ``sudo /usr/pgsql-9.4/bin/postgresql94-setup initdb``

6. Set PostgreSQL to start on boot.

  ``sudo systemctl enable postgresql-9.4``

7. Start the PostgreSQL server.

  ``sudo systemctl start postgresql-9.4``

8. Switch to the *postgres* Linux user account that was created during the installation.

  ``sudo -ui postgres``

9. Start the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``psql``

10.  Create the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# CREATE DATABASE mattermost;``

11.  Create the Mattermost user 'mmuser'.

  ``postgres=# CREATE USER mmuser WITH PASSWORD 'mmuser_password';``
  
  .. note::
    Use a password that is more secure than 'mmuser-password'.

12.  Grant the user access to the Mattermost database.

  ``postgres=# GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON DATABASE mattermost to mmuser;``

13. Exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal.

  ``postgre=# \q``

14. Log out of the *postgres* account.

  ``exit``

15. Allow Postgres to listen on all assigned IP Addresses.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/postgresql.conf`` as root in a text editor.

  b. Find the following line:
  
    ``#listen_addresses = 'localhost'``

  c. Uncomment the line and change ``localhost`` to ``*``:
  
    ``listen_addresses = '*'``

16. If the Mattermost server is on a separate machine, modify the file ``pg_hba.conf`` to allow the Mattermost server to communicate with the database.

  If the Mattermost server and the database are on the same machine, then you can skip this step.

  a. Open ``/var/lib/pgsql/9.4/data/pg_hba.conf`` in a text editor.

  b. Add the following line to the end of the file, where *<mm-server-IP>* is the IP address of the machine that contains the Mattermost server.

    ``host all all <mm-server-IP>/32 md5``

17. Reload Postgres database

  ``sudo systemctl reload postgresql-9.4``

18. Verify that you can connect with the user *mmuser*.
  
  ``psql --host=localhost --dbname=mattermost --username=mmuser --password``
  
  The PostgreSQL interactive terminal starts. To exit the PostgreSQL interactive terminal, type ``\q`` and press **Enter**.

With the database installed and the initial setup complete, you can now install the Mattermost server.
