source/install/prod-windows-2012.rst, before:

..  _prod-windows:

Production Install on Windows Server
====================================

.. attention:: This install guide has been contributed by the Mattermost community. 
   It has not yet been tested by the core team. We have `an open ticket 
   <https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues/360>`__ requesting the community help test and 
   improve this guide. 
   
   Once the community has confirmed we have multiple deployments on these 
   instructions, we can update the text here. If you're installing on Windows anyway, please let 
   us know of any issues or suggest improvements? https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues/360

.. contents::
  :backlinks: top

Install Windows Server 2012+
----------------------------

1. Set up 3 machines with any edition of Windows Server 2012+ (except core) with 2GB of RAM or more. The
   servers will be used for the Web Proxy & SSL Termination, Mattermost, and Database.  The screenshots 
   used in this guide are from Microsoft Server 2012, but similar steps should work for other versions.

   -  **Optional:** You can also use a single machine for all 3
      components in this install guide, depending on the standards of
      your data center.  In this case, replace all 10.0.0.* IP addresses 
      with a single/common address.

2. Make sure the systems are up to date with the most recent security
   patches by executing Windows Update.

Set up Database Server
----------------------

1.  Login to the database server.  For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
    address of 10.0.0.1.

Install & Configure MySQL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

2. `Download the MySQL 5.6+ <http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/windows/installer/>`__ installer, or (PostgreSQL 9.3+).
   For the purposes of this guide, we'll be downloading and installing the latest version of MySQL Community Server
   Edition MSI-installer (version 5.7 at the time of writing this guide). Note that the appropriate link refers 
   to 32-bit (as shown in the figure below); however, this installer is 32-bit but is capable of installing the 
   64-bit version of MySQL.

3. Launch the installer.

4. On the **License Agreement** page, Check the box to accept the license terms and press Next.

5. On the **Choosing a Setup Type** choose **Custom** so you can decide exactly which packages to install. This 
   is the only place where you can specify whether to install 32-bit or 64-bit MySQL Server.

6. On the **Select Products and Features** page, select the **64bit** version of MySQL Server.

7. On the **Check Requirements** page, install any missing requirements by pressing the Execute button, or go back 
   to the previous page and change the packages that will be installed to remove the requirement. Once all of the 
   requirements are met, press the Next button.

8. On the **Installation** page, you will be shown a list of software that will be installed. Press the Execute 
   button to begin the installation.  Once the installations have completed, press the Next button.

9. On the **Product Configuration** page, press the Next button to begin the MySQL Server Configuration Wizard.

   a. On the **Type and Networking** page, select the appropriate **Config Type** based on your desired usage.
   b. On the **Accounts and Roles** page, enter a MySQL Root password and press the Next button.
   c. On the **Windows Service** page, keep the defaults and press the Next button.
   d. On the **Plugins and Extensions** page, keep the defaults and press the Next button.
   e. On the **Apply Server Configuration** page, press the Execute button to configure the MySQL Server installation.

10. Returning to the **Product Configuration** page, press the Next button.

11. On the **Installation Complete** page, press the Finish button.

Configure Windows PATH
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding MySQL to the Windows PATH variable will allow you run various commands from the console, and 
allow 3rd party applications to execute various MySQL commands.

12. Press the ``WIN + PAUSEBREAK`` key combination to open the **System** Control Panel Applet.

13. Select the **Advanced System Settings** link.

14. Select the **Advanced** tab. 

15. Press the **Environment Variables** button.

16. In the **System Variables** section, select the **Path** variable in the list, then press the Edit button.

17. Append the path to your MySQL Server bin directory (make sure to add a semi-colon after any existing 
    items in the path before appending the new path). The default path for a 64-bit 
    installation is ``C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.7\bin``.

Create Mattermost Database
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now that MySQL has been installed and configured, a database and user account must be provisioned 
for Mattermost to utilize.

18. Open a command prompt and enter ``mysql -u root -p`` to connect to the MySQL server

19. When prompted, enter the password created in step 9.a.       

20. At the ``mysql>`` prompt, execute the following commands to create the database and user account

    .. code:: sql

       CREATE DATABASE mattermost;
       CREATE USER mmuser IDENTIFIED BY 'mmuser_password';
       GRANT ALL ON mattermost.* TO mmuser;
       exit

21. To confirm the database and user were configured correctly

    a. Connect to the MySQL server/datbase by executing ``mysql -u mmuser -p mattermost`` 
    b. When prompted, entering ``mmuser_password``
    c. If If successful, you will be at the ``mysql>`` prompt 
    d. Type ``exit`` to finish

Set up Mattermost Server
------------------------

1. For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
   address of 10.0.0.2

2. `Download <https://www.mattermost.org/download/>`__ the latest Mattermost Server by opening your 
   favorite browser and navigating to 
   ``https://releases.mattermost.com/X.X.X/mattermost-team-X.X.X-windows-amd64.zip`` 
   where `X.X.X` is the latest Mattermost release version. For example, 3.4.0.

3. Create the storage directory for files. We assume you will have attached a large drive for storage 
   of images and files. For this setup we will assume the directory is located at ``c:\mattermost\data``.  
   Your directory structure should look similar to the image below.

   .. image:: ../images/windows_1_expected_directory_structure.png

4. Configure Mattermost Server by editing the config.json file at ``c:\mattermost\config\config.json``.
   
   * Update database name and server in the the connection string:
     
     * Old: ``"DataSource": "mmuser:mostest@tcp(dockerhost:3306)/mattermost_test?charset=utf8mb4,utf8"``    
     * New: ``"DataSource": "mmuser:mmuser_password@tcp(10.0.0.1:3306)/mattermost?charset=utf8mb4,utf8"``

   .. note :: Optionally you may continue to edit configuration settings in ``config.json`` or use the 
      System Console described in a later section to finish the configuration.

5. Test the Mattermost Server

   a. Open a command prompt, and execute ``cd c:\mattermost\bin`` to change your working directory

   b. Execute ``platform.exe``
   
   c. Verify that mattermost is running and connected to the database successfully by confirmed a console 
      log like ``Server is listening on :8065`` letting you know the service is running.

      .. image:: ../images/windows_2_platform_exe_test.png

   d. Stop the server for now by typing ``ctrl-c``

Configure the Firewall
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: This is not required if you are installing on a single server.

6. Open a command prompt as an administrator

7. Execute the following command to allow inbound traffic to Mattermost

   .. code:: batch

      netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Mattermost" dir=in action=allow program="C:\mattermost\bin\platform.exe" enable=yes 

Establish a Windows Service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Establishing a windows service to supervise the Mattermost process is recommended to prevent the need to 
manually start/stop Mattermost.  The included binary cannot be directly registered as a windows service; therefore, 
a wrapper-utility must be used.

8. Download the latest version of `NSSM (Non-Sucking Service Manager) <https://nssm.cc/download>`__.

9. From the downloaded zip-file, extract ``win64\nssm.exe`` to ``C:\mattermost\bin\``

10. Open a command line as an administrator

11. To create the windows service, execute the following

    .. code:: batch

       cd c:\mattermost\bin
       nssm install mattermost c:\mattermost\bin\platform.exe

12. Start the service by executing the following

    .. code:: batch

      net start mattermost
      tasklist /FI "IMAGENAME eq platform.exe"

Verify Mattermost Connectivity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To verify all steps executed thus far, we'll attempt to access Mattermost through standard HTTP traffic.  To perform 
this step, you'll need access to a client machine with a compatible browser (e.g. Safari, Firefox, IE11, Chrome, etc).

13. From a client workstation meeting the criteria above, launch your favorite web browser.

14. Navigate to ``http://10.0.0.2:8065``.  If successful, you should reach an initialization web-page similar to
    the screenshot below.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_3_confirm_mattermost_browser.png

15. Assuming your test was successful, close the browser as we'll finish initializing Mattermost later in this guide.

Set up Web Proxy Server
-----------------------

A reverse proxy is recommended in order to provide:

- SSL termination
- HTTP to HTTPS redirection
- Port mapping :80/:443 to :8065
- Standard request logs
- Load balancing (not described in this guide).

Internet Information Server (IIS) for Windows Server is the standard capability provided out-of-the-box that
provides this function.  

1. For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
   address of 10.0.0.3.

2. Map a FQDN (fully qualitified domain name), like **mattermost.example.com** to the proxy server (e.g. 10.0.0.2).

Install IIS
^^^^^^^^^^^

3. On the **Start** page, click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click OK.

4. In **Server Manager**, select **Dashboard**, and click **Add roles and features**.

5. In the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the **Before you begin** page, click Next.

6. On the **Select installation type** page, select Role-based or feature-based installation, and click Next.

7. On the **Select destination server** page, select **Select a server from the server pool**, 
   select your server, and click Next.

8. On the **Select server roles** page, select **Web Server (IIS)**.

9. Expand **Web Server (IIS) > Web Server > Application Development** and select **WebSockets Protocol**, and then click Next.

10. On the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** popup dialog, click Add Features, and then click Next.

11. On the **Select features** page, click Next.

12. On the **Web Server Role (IIS)** page, click Next.

13. On the **Select role services** page, accept the default selections, and click Next.

14. On the **Summary of Features to Install** page, click Install.

15. On the Installation progress page, confirm that your installation of the Web Server (IIS) role and 
    required role services completed successfully, and then click Close.
 
16. To verify that IIS installed successfully, navigate to ``http://localhost`` in a web browser on 
    the server, and confirm the default IIS Welcome page is displayed.

Configure Reverse Proxy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reverse proxying involves rewriting an HTTP request and relaying it to a back-end server.  IIS does not natively support this; however, Microsoft
provides a `URL Rewrite <http://www.iis.net/learn/extensions/url-rewrite-module>`__ module and an `Application Request Routing 
<http://www.iis.net/downloads/microsoft/application-request-routing>`__ module which, when combined, are capable of performing these functions.
We'll start by installing these module, and then configure the proxy.

17. `Download <http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=615137>`__ the URL Rewrite 2.0 x64 module.

18. `Download <http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=615136>`__ the Application Request Routing 3.0 x64 module.

19. Install the modules (trivial installers with no customizations or options to select).

20. On the **Start** page, click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click OK.

21. Expand the **Tools** menu, and select **Information Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_4_IIS_manager.png

22. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites**, and select **Default Web Site**.

23. Double-click the URL Rewrite feature, as shown below.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_5_iis_manager_url_rewrite.png

24. In the actions pane (far-right), select **Add Rule(s)...**

25. Select **Reverse Proxy** and press OK.

26. If prompted to enable proxy functionality, press OK.

27. In the **Add Reverse Proxy Rules** dialog, 

    a. Enter ``10.0.0.2:8065`` in the **Enter the server name or IP address where HTTP requests will be forwarded** field.

    b. Ensure the **Enable SSL Offloading** option is checked.

    c. Check **Rewrite the domain names of the links in HTTP responses**

    d. Enter ``10.0.0.2:8065`` in the **From** field.

    e. Enter ``mattermost.example.com`` in the **To** field.

    f. Press OK

28. At this point, your configuration will relay all incoming traffic from `http://mattermost.example.com` 
    to `http://10.0.0.2:8065/`.  To confirm this, open your favorite browser and attempt to access
    `http://mattermost.example.com`, and upon success, you'll see the Mattermost initialization screen.

Configure SSL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: SSL communication requires that the web server have a well-formed and trusted certificate.  A common
   freely-available SSL encryption and certificate managemet is Let's Encrypt; however, this service does
   not formally support the Windows Operating system. A number of third-parties have created clients to support this, and
   you are free to try out any of them.  This section assumes that you have taken the necessary steps
   to obtain a web-server certificate that will be trusted by your users.

29. Within the IIS Manager, select the server node in the left-hand connections pane.

30. Double-click the **Server Certificates** option.

31. Select **Import...** from the list of actions on the right-hand-side.

32. Press the ... button to locate your PFX formatted certificate.

33. Enter the password to the certificate file.

34. Select the **Web Hosting** certificate store, and press OK.

35. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites**, and select **Default Web Site**.

36. In the right-hand-side **Actions** pane, select **Bindings...**.

37. Press **Add**

38. In the **Add Site Binding** dialog, Set the type to **https** and set the **SSL Certificate** to the certificate loaded previously.  Press OK.

Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

39. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites** and select **Default Web Site**.

40. Double-click to open the Url Rewrite feature.

41. In the actions-pane (far-right), select **Add Rule(s)..**

42. Under the **Inbound Rules** section, select **Blank rule** and press OK.

43. Populate the fields in the rule to match the screenshot below

    .. image:: ../images/windows_6_http_to_https_redirect.png   

44. Press **Apply** and then press **Back to Rules**.

45. Ensure that the **HTTP to HTTPS Redirect** rule is at the top of the list of inbound rules.  If nceessary, you can select a rule and use the **Move Up** and **Move Down** actions to reorganize.

46. On a client workstation, open your favorite browser and navigate to `http://mattermost.example.com` and confirm that you are redirected to `https://mattermost.example.com`.

Finish Mattermost Server Setup
------------------------------

1. Navigate to ``https://mattermost.example.com`` and create a user and team.

2. The first user in the system is automatically granted the
   ``system_admin`` role, which gives you access to the System Console.

3. From the ``town-square`` channel click the dropdown next to your team name and choose the
   ``System Console`` option
   
4. Update **General** > **Configuration** settings to properly configure your reverse proxy by entering `https://mattermost.example.com` as the **Site URL**

   .. attention:: Failure to properly set the Site URL properly __will__ result in unexpected behavior.  Do not include the trailing '/' on the URL.

5. Update **Notification** > **Email** settings to setup an SMTP email service. The example below assumes AmazonSES.

   a. Set **Send Email Notifications** to true
   b. Set **Require Email Verification** to true
   c. Set **Feedback Name** to ``No-Reply``
   d. Set **Feedback Email** to ``mattermost@example.com``
   e. Set **SMTP Username** to ``[YOUR_SMTP_USERNAME]``
   f. Set **SMTP Password** to ``[YOUR_SMTP_PASSWORD]``
   g. Set **SMTP Server** to ``email-smtp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com``
   h. Set **SMTP Port** to ``465``
   i. Set **Connection Security** to ``TLS``
   j. Save the Settings

6. Update **File** > **Storage** settings:

   - Change **Local Directory Location** from ``./data/`` to
     ``/mattermost/data``

7. Update **General** > **Logging** settings:

   - Set **Log to The Console** to ``false``

8. Update **Advanced** > **Rate Limiting** settings:

   - Set **Vary By Remote Address** to false
   - Set **Vary By HTTP Header** to X-Real-IP

9. Feel free to modify other settings.

10. Login to the Mattermost server (10.0.0.2) and restart the Mattermost Service by typing the following into a command line 

   .. code:: batch

      net stop mattermost
      net start mattermost

Commit message:

Noting Windows Install Guide unofficial

source/install/prod-windows-2012.rst, after:

..  _prod-windows:

Production Install on Windows Server (Unofficial   ) 
=================================================

This install guide shows how to deploy Mattermost on Windows Server 2012 with IIS.

.. attention:: This unofficial guide is maintained by the Mattermost community and this deployment configuration is not yet officially supported by Mattermost, Inc. `Community testing, feedback and improvements are welcome and greatly appreciated. <https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues/360>`_
 
.. contents::
  :backlinks: top

Install Windows Server 2012+
----------------------------

1. Set up 3 machines with any edition of Windows Server 2012+ (except core) with 2GB of RAM or more. The
   servers will be used for the Web Proxy & SSL Termination, Mattermost, and Database.  The screenshots 
   used in this guide are from Microsoft Server 2012, but similar steps should work for other versions.

   -  **Optional:** You can also use a single machine for all 3
      components in this install guide, depending on the standards of
      your data center.  In this case, replace all 10.0.0.* IP addresses 
      with a single/common address.

2. Make sure the systems are up to date with the most recent security
   patches by executing Windows Update.

Set up Database Server
----------------------

1.  Login to the database server.  For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
    address of 10.0.0.1.

Install & Configure MySQL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

2. `Download the MySQL 5.6+ <http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/windows/installer/>`__ installer, or (PostgreSQL 9.3+).
   For the purposes of this guide, we'll be downloading and installing the latest version of MySQL Community Server
   Edition MSI-installer (version 5.7 at the time of writing this guide). Note that the appropriate link refers 
   to 32-bit (as shown in the figure below); however, this installer is 32-bit but is capable of installing the 
   64-bit version of MySQL.

3. Launch the installer.

4. On the **License Agreement** page, Check the box to accept the license terms and press Next.

5. On the **Choosing a Setup Type** choose **Custom** so you can decide exactly which packages to install. This 
   is the only place where you can specify whether to install 32-bit or 64-bit MySQL Server.

6. On the **Select Products and Features** page, select the **64bit** version of MySQL Server.

7. On the **Check Requirements** page, install any missing requirements by pressing the Execute button, or go back 
   to the previous page and change the packages that will be installed to remove the requirement. Once all of the 
   requirements are met, press the Next button.

8. On the **Installation** page, you will be shown a list of software that will be installed. Press the Execute 
   button to begin the installation.  Once the installations have completed, press the Next button.

9. On the **Product Configuration** page, press the Next button to begin the MySQL Server Configuration Wizard.

   a. On the **Type and Networking** page, select the appropriate **Config Type** based on your desired usage.
   b. On the **Accounts and Roles** page, enter a MySQL Root password and press the Next button.
   c. On the **Windows Service** page, keep the defaults and press the Next button.
   d. On the **Plugins and Extensions** page, keep the defaults and press the Next button.
   e. On the **Apply Server Configuration** page, press the Execute button to configure the MySQL Server installation.

10. Returning to the **Product Configuration** page, press the Next button.

11. On the **Installation Complete** page, press the Finish button.

Configure Windows PATH
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Adding MySQL to the Windows PATH variable will allow you run various commands from the console, and 
allow 3rd party applications to execute various MySQL commands.

12. Press the ``WIN + PAUSEBREAK`` key combination to open the **System** Control Panel Applet.

13. Select the **Advanced System Settings** link.

14. Select the **Advanced** tab. 

15. Press the **Environment Variables** button.

16. In the **System Variables** section, select the **Path** variable in the list, then press the Edit button.

17. Append the path to your MySQL Server bin directory (make sure to add a semi-colon after any existing 
    items in the path before appending the new path). The default path for a 64-bit 
    installation is ``C:\Program Files\MySQL\MySQL Server 5.7\bin``.

Create Mattermost Database
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Now that MySQL has been installed and configured, a database and user account must be provisioned 
for Mattermost to utilize.

18. Open a command prompt and enter ``mysql -u root -p`` to connect to the MySQL server

19. When prompted, enter the password created in step 9.a.       

20. At the ``mysql>`` prompt, execute the following commands to create the database and user account

    .. code:: sql

       CREATE DATABASE mattermost;
       CREATE USER mmuser IDENTIFIED BY 'mmuser_password';
       GRANT ALL ON mattermost.* TO mmuser;
       exit

21. To confirm the database and user were configured correctly

    a. Connect to the MySQL server/datbase by executing ``mysql -u mmuser -p mattermost`` 
    b. When prompted, entering ``mmuser_password``
    c. If If successful, you will be at the ``mysql>`` prompt 
    d. Type ``exit`` to finish

Set up Mattermost Server
------------------------

1. For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
   address of 10.0.0.2

2. `Download <https://www.mattermost.org/download/>`__ the latest Mattermost Server by opening your 
   favorite browser and navigating to 
   ``https://releases.mattermost.com/X.X.X/mattermost-team-X.X.X-windows-amd64.zip`` 
   where `X.X.X` is the latest Mattermost release version. For example, 3.4.0.

3. Create the storage directory for files. We assume you will have attached a large drive for storage 
   of images and files. For this setup we will assume the directory is located at ``c:\mattermost\data``.  
   Your directory structure should look similar to the image below.

   .. image:: ../images/windows_1_expected_directory_structure.png

4. Configure Mattermost Server by editing the config.json file at ``c:\mattermost\config\config.json``.
   
   * Update database name and server in the the connection string:
     
     * Old: ``"DataSource": "mmuser:mostest@tcp(dockerhost:3306)/mattermost_test?charset=utf8mb4,utf8"``    
     * New: ``"DataSource": "mmuser:mmuser_password@tcp(10.0.0.1:3306)/mattermost?charset=utf8mb4,utf8"``

   .. note :: Optionally you may continue to edit configuration settings in ``config.json`` or use the 
      System Console described in a later section to finish the configuration.

5. Test the Mattermost Server

   a. Open a command prompt, and execute ``cd c:\mattermost\bin`` to change your working directory

   b. Execute ``platform.exe``
   
   c. Verify that mattermost is running and connected to the database successfully by confirmed a console 
      log like ``Server is listening on :8065`` letting you know the service is running.

      .. image:: ../images/windows_2_platform_exe_test.png

   d. Stop the server for now by typing ``ctrl-c``

Configure the Firewall
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: This is not required if you are installing on a single server.

6. Open a command prompt as an administrator

7. Execute the following command to allow inbound traffic to Mattermost

   .. code:: batch

      netsh advfirewall firewall add rule name="Mattermost" dir=in action=allow program="C:\mattermost\bin\platform.exe" enable=yes 

Establish a Windows Service
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Establishing a windows service to supervise the Mattermost process is recommended to prevent the need to 
manually start/stop Mattermost.  The included binary cannot be directly registered as a windows service; therefore, 
a wrapper-utility must be used.

8. Download the latest version of `NSSM (Non-Sucking Service Manager) <https://nssm.cc/download>`__.

9. From the downloaded zip-file, extract ``win64\nssm.exe`` to ``C:\mattermost\bin\``

10. Open a command line as an administrator

11. To create the windows service, execute the following

    .. code:: batch

       cd c:\mattermost\bin
       nssm install mattermost c:\mattermost\bin\platform.exe

12. Start the service by executing the following

    .. code:: batch

      net start mattermost
      tasklist /FI "IMAGENAME eq platform.exe"

Verify Mattermost Connectivity
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To verify all steps executed thus far, we'll attempt to access Mattermost through standard HTTP traffic.  To perform 
this step, you'll need access to a client machine with a compatible browser (e.g. Safari, Firefox, IE11, Chrome, etc).

13. From a client workstation meeting the criteria above, launch your favorite web browser.

14. Navigate to ``http://10.0.0.2:8065``.  If successful, you should reach an initialization web-page similar to
    the screenshot below.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_3_confirm_mattermost_browser.png

15. Assuming your test was successful, close the browser as we'll finish initializing Mattermost later in this guide.

Set up Web Proxy Server
-----------------------

A reverse proxy is recommended in order to provide:

- SSL termination
- HTTP to HTTPS redirection
- Port mapping :80/:443 to :8065
- Standard request logs
- Load balancing (not described in this guide).

Internet Information Server (IIS) for Windows Server is the standard capability provided out-of-the-box that
provides this function.  

1. For the purposes of this guide we will assume this server has an IP
   address of 10.0.0.3.

2. Map a FQDN (fully qualitified domain name), like **mattermost.example.com** to the proxy server (e.g. 10.0.0.2).

Install IIS
^^^^^^^^^^^

3. On the **Start** page, click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click OK.

4. In **Server Manager**, select **Dashboard**, and click **Add roles and features**.

5. In the **Add Roles and Features Wizard**, on the **Before you begin** page, click Next.

6. On the **Select installation type** page, select Role-based or feature-based installation, and click Next.

7. On the **Select destination server** page, select **Select a server from the server pool**, 
   select your server, and click Next.

8. On the **Select server roles** page, select **Web Server (IIS)**.

9. Expand **Web Server (IIS) > Web Server > Application Development** and select **WebSockets Protocol**, and then click Next.

10. On the **Add Roles and Features Wizard** popup dialog, click Add Features, and then click Next.

11. On the **Select features** page, click Next.

12. On the **Web Server Role (IIS)** page, click Next.

13. On the **Select role services** page, accept the default selections, and click Next.

14. On the **Summary of Features to Install** page, click Install.

15. On the Installation progress page, confirm that your installation of the Web Server (IIS) role and 
    required role services completed successfully, and then click Close.
 
16. To verify that IIS installed successfully, navigate to ``http://localhost`` in a web browser on 
    the server, and confirm the default IIS Welcome page is displayed.

Configure Reverse Proxy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Reverse proxying involves rewriting an HTTP request and relaying it to a back-end server.  IIS does not natively support this; however, Microsoft
provides a `URL Rewrite <http://www.iis.net/learn/extensions/url-rewrite-module>`__ module and an `Application Request Routing 
<http://www.iis.net/downloads/microsoft/application-request-routing>`__ module which, when combined, are capable of performing these functions.
We'll start by installing these module, and then configure the proxy.

17. `Download <http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=615137>`__ the URL Rewrite 2.0 x64 module.

18. `Download <http://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?LinkID=615136>`__ the Application Request Routing 3.0 x64 module.

19. Install the modules (trivial installers with no customizations or options to select).

20. On the **Start** page, click the **Server Manager** tile, and then click OK.

21. Expand the **Tools** menu, and select **Information Information Services (IIS) Manager**.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_4_IIS_manager.png

22. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites**, and select **Default Web Site**.

23. Double-click the URL Rewrite feature, as shown below.

    .. image:: ../images/windows_5_iis_manager_url_rewrite.png

24. In the actions pane (far-right), select **Add Rule(s)...**

25. Select **Reverse Proxy** and press OK.

26. If prompted to enable proxy functionality, press OK.

27. In the **Add Reverse Proxy Rules** dialog, 

    a. Enter ``10.0.0.2:8065`` in the **Enter the server name or IP address where HTTP requests will be forwarded** field.

    b. Ensure the **Enable SSL Offloading** option is checked.

    c. Check **Rewrite the domain names of the links in HTTP responses**

    d. Enter ``10.0.0.2:8065`` in the **From** field.

    e. Enter ``mattermost.example.com`` in the **To** field.

    f. Press OK

28. At this point, your configuration will relay all incoming traffic from `http://mattermost.example.com` 
    to `http://10.0.0.2:8065/`.  To confirm this, open your favorite browser and attempt to access
    `http://mattermost.example.com`, and upon success, you'll see the Mattermost initialization screen.

Configure SSL
^^^^^^^^^^^^^

.. note:: SSL communication requires that the web server have a well-formed and trusted certificate.  A common
   freely-available SSL encryption and certificate managemet is Let's Encrypt; however, this service does
   not formally support the Windows Operating system. A number of third-parties have created clients to support this, and
   you are free to try out any of them.  This section assumes that you have taken the necessary steps
   to obtain a web-server certificate that will be trusted by your users.

29. Within the IIS Manager, select the server node in the left-hand connections pane.

30. Double-click the **Server Certificates** option.

31. Select **Import...** from the list of actions on the right-hand-side.

32. Press the ... button to locate your PFX formatted certificate.

33. Enter the password to the certificate file.

34. Select the **Web Hosting** certificate store, and press OK.

35. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites**, and select **Default Web Site**.

36. In the right-hand-side **Actions** pane, select **Bindings...**.

37. Press **Add**

38. In the **Add Site Binding** dialog, Set the type to **https** and set the **SSL Certificate** to the certificate loaded previously.  Press OK.

Redirect HTTP to HTTPS
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

39. In the left-hand navigation tree, expand the server node, expand **Sites** and select **Default Web Site**.

40. Double-click to open the Url Rewrite feature.

41. In the actions-pane (far-right), select **Add Rule(s)..**

42. Under the **Inbound Rules** section, select **Blank rule** and press OK.

43. Populate the fields in the rule to match the screenshot below

    .. image:: ../images/windows_6_http_to_https_redirect.png   

44. Press **Apply** and then press **Back to Rules**.

45. Ensure that the **HTTP to HTTPS Redirect** rule is at the top of the list of inbound rules.  If nceessary, you can select a rule and use the **Move Up** and **Move Down** actions to reorganize.

46. On a client workstation, open your favorite browser and navigate to `http://mattermost.example.com` and confirm that you are redirected to `https://mattermost.example.com`.

Finish Mattermost Server Setup
------------------------------

1. Navigate to ``https://mattermost.example.com`` and create a user and team.

2. The first user in the system is automatically granted the
   ``system_admin`` role, which gives you access to the System Console.

3. From the ``town-square`` channel click the dropdown next to your team name and choose the
   ``System Console`` option
   
4. Update **General** > **Configuration** settings to properly configure your reverse proxy by entering `https://mattermost.example.com` as the **Site URL**

   .. attention:: Failure to properly set the Site URL properly __will__ result in unexpected behavior.  Do not include the trailing '/' on the URL.

5. Update **Notification** > **Email** settings to setup an SMTP email service. The example below assumes AmazonSES.

   a. Set **Send Email Notifications** to true
   b. Set **Require Email Verification** to true
   c. Set **Feedback Name** to ``No-Reply``
   d. Set **Feedback Email** to ``mattermost@example.com``
   e. Set **SMTP Username** to ``[YOUR_SMTP_USERNAME]``
   f. Set **SMTP Password** to ``[YOUR_SMTP_PASSWORD]``
   g. Set **SMTP Server** to ``email-smtp.us-east-1.amazonaws.com``
   h. Set **SMTP Port** to ``465``
   i. Set **Connection Security** to ``TLS``
   j. Save the Settings

6. Update **File** > **Storage** settings:

   - Change **Local Directory Location** from ``./data/`` to
     ``/mattermost/data``

7. Update **General** > **Logging** settings:

   - Set **Log to The Console** to ``false``

8. Update **Advanced** > **Rate Limiting** settings:

   - Set **Vary By Remote Address** to false
   - Set **Vary By HTTP Header** to X-Real-IP

9. Feel free to modify other settings.

10. Login to the Mattermost server (10.0.0.2) and restart the Mattermost Service by typing the following into a command line 

   .. code:: batch

      net stop mattermost
      net start mattermost
