Collaborate with AI Agents
===========================

.. include:: ../_static/badges/allplans-cloud-selfhosted.rst
  :start-after: :nosearch:

.. include:: /agents/docs/user_guide.md
  :parser: myst

Go Hands-Free with Agents
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Enable your Operating System's voice dictation or speech recognition tools for hands-free communication with Mattermost Agents.

.. tab:: Windows

  1. Start a direct message with an Agent bot, and ensure your cursor is in the Mattermost message text box.
  2. Ensure your microphone is connected and working.
  3. Activate Microsoft Voice Typing by pressing the **Windows** key + :kbd:`H` to open the voice typing tool.
  4. Start talking. Windows transforms your voice into text within Mattermost.

  See Microsoft's `Voice Typing documentation <https://support.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/use-voice-typing-to-talk-instead-of-type-on-your-pc-fec94565-c4bd-329d-e59a-af033fa5689f>`_ to learn more about working with Microsoft's Voice Typing tools.

.. tab:: MacOS

  1. Navigate to **System Settings > Keyboard > Dictation** and enable dictation.

    a. Ensure the Microphone source is set correctly.
    b. Specify the shortcut key you want to use to turn dictation on and off.

  2. Start a direct message with an Agent bot, and ensure your cursor is in the Mattermost message text box.
  3. Turn dictation on with the shortcut key you configured, and then start talking. MacOS transforms your voice into text within Mattermost.

  See Apple's `Voice control documentation <https://support.apple.com/en-us/102225>`_ to learn more about working with Apple's dictation tools.

.. tab:: Linux

  You'll need an open-source speech recognition tool for Linux, such as `Simon <https://simon.kde.org/>`_, `SpeechControl <https://wiki.ubuntu.com/SpeechControl>`_, or `Julius <https://github.com/julius-speech/julius>`_

  Once you have a speech recognition tool installed and working, enable it, Start a direct message with an Agent bot, and start talking.

.. tip::

  When working with AI technology and Agent bots, it's important to understand that it's an  iterative process. Using an iterative approach ensures that you leverage Agents to complement your work, leading to higher quality results. Here are some tips for being more effective with Mattermost Agents:

  - Avoid a one-and-done mindset: Don't assume that the first output will be perfect. Instead, review and refine the content to ensure it meets your standards and needs.

    - Make corrections. Use voice dictation to say, "In the second section, remove mention of widgets. Add voice memos instead."
    - Make edits. For example, say "Remove Section 3" or "Switch Section 3 with Section 5"
    - Reduce unnecessary words. Say, "Remove unnecessary phrases to make this more concise."
    - Compact statements. Say, "Condense this into a single paragraph."

  - Use AI as a tool, not a replacement: Treat the outputs generated by Agents as initial drafts. Agents can help you enhance your writing and analysis, not replace your own skills and judgment. Think of Agents as your very own high-tech assistants that can provide suggestions and help you brainstorm.
  - Iterate for quality: Go through multiple rounds of revisions to catch errors, improve clarity, and refine the content to better align with your goals. By continually reviewing and tweaking the outputs, you'll end up with more polished and accurate content, and maximize the value of Agents by producing professional-grade results.

.. note::

  Mattermost Agents must be :doc:`enabled and configured </configure/enable-agents>` by a Mattermost system admin in the System Console before you can start using it.