source/process/community-systems.md, before:

# Bugs, Feature Ideas, Troubleshooting

Here's how to engage with the Mattermost community: 

- **Bugs** - [Search for existing bugs and file a GitHub issue if your bug is new](http://www.mattermost.org/filing-issues/). 
- **Feature Ideas** - [Add a feature idea to be discussed or upvoted](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/).
- **Troubleshoot** - [Search articles and add topic if issue is new](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/how-to-use-the-troubleshooting-forum/150).
- **General discussion** - [Join the Mattermost Forum](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/welcome-to-the-mattermost-general-forum/8). 
- **Contribute code** - Select tickets [accepting pull requests](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/PLT-2244?filter=10101) and follow [guidelines to contribute](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/contribution-guide.html). 
- **Contributor and tester discussion** - Contributors and testers can use [nightly builds server](https://pre-release.mattermost.com/core) to work on next release.
- **Approved changes** - See [Jira database](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/secure/Dashboard.jspa) to view open, in-progress, resolved and closed tickets. 
- **Licensing questions** - Please mail info@mattermost.com. 

## GitHub Issues Workflow

To minimize response times, templates and automation are used across community systems for common requests. 

### Category: Issue Submitter needs to do something

Start with "Please..."

##### Label: Please move to Troubleshooting forum

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for your question, 

Because this seems to be more a troubleshooting discussion than a product defect, could we have your help posting this to the [Troubleshooting Forum](http://www.mattermost.org/troubleshoot/)? 

Per above link, please include repro steps to make it easier to solve your issue. Also, please link back to your new post from this issue? 
```

##### Label: Please move to Feature Ideas forum

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME], appreciate your feedback, 

To keep feature idea discussions in one place, could we have your help: 

1. [Contributing this in the feature idea forum](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/) so it can be discussed, upvoted and considered for a [ticket accepting pull requests](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html)? 

   Please include a link back to this GitHub Issue. If you're interested in implementing, please say so and we'll prioritize the review. 

2. Posting a link back from the feature idea forum to this thread? 
```

##### Label: Please add repro steps 

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the bug report, 

Can you help [add more information](http://www.mattermost.org/filing-issues/) so we can reproduce the issue? 
```

##### Label: Please rebase 

```
Please rebase this Pull Request
```

### Category: We/community need to do something 

Start with "Needs..."

##### Label: Needs PR reviewer

Needs Reviewer to add `+1` or share feedback to submitter on how to adjust pull request. 

##### Label: Needs PR seconder

After code is reviewed, needs "Seconder" to add `+1` or share feedback to submitter on how to adjust pull request. 

##### Label: Needs PM review

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for your feedback. 

This ticket requires design review. Asking help from @[Core Team PM]
```

##### Label: Needs merge (review complete)

PR has been reviewed and seconded and is awaiting merge. 

##### Label: Needs Jira ticket

? + Assign to ?

Response after Jira ticket is created:

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME], [Jira ticket]([LINK_TO_JIRA_TICKET]) created for this issue. 
```

### Category: Miscellanous Issues

##### Label: Asking community help to repro 

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the issue report, 

Would anyone from the community be able to help repro this issue to verify it can be reproduced? 
```

##### Label: Duplicate Jira ticket

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the report, 

We have a [Jira Ticket]([LINK_TO_JIRA_TICKET]) tracking the issue. 
```

##### Label: Setup Test Server

Adding this label sets up a test server, removing it shuts down the test server. 

##### Label: Substantial commit

A PR that requires careful review due to size. 

##### Label: DO NOT MERGE 

A PR submitted for discussion that SHOULD NOT be merged.

Commit message:

Emphasize closing misfiled issues quickly

source/process/community-systems.md, after:

# Bugs, Feature Ideas, Troubleshooting

Here's how to engage with the Mattermost community: 

- **Bugs** - [Search for existing bugs and file a GitHub issue if your bug is new](http://www.mattermost.org/filing-issues/). 
- **Feature Ideas** - [Add a feature idea to be discussed or upvoted](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/).
- **Troubleshoot** - [Search articles and add topic if issue is new](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/how-to-use-the-troubleshooting-forum/150).
- **General discussion** - [Join the Mattermost Forum](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/welcome-to-the-mattermost-general-forum/8). 
- **Contribute code** - Select tickets [accepting pull requests](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/browse/PLT-2244?filter=10101) and follow [guidelines to contribute](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/contribution-guide.html). 
- **Contributor and tester discussion** - Contributors and testers can use [nightly builds server](https://pre-release.mattermost.com/core) to work on next release.
- **Approved changes** - See [Jira database](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/secure/Dashboard.jspa) to view open, in-progress, resolved and closed tickets. 
- **Licensing questions** - Please mail info@mattermost.com. 

## GitHub Issues Workflow

To minimize response times, templates and automation are used across community systems for common requests. When misfiled requests are are posted in GitHub close them soon so the community does not confuse them as being appropriate. 

### Category: Issue Submitter needs to do something

Start with "Please..."

##### Label: Please move to Troubleshooting forum

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for your question, 

Because this seems to be more a troubleshooting discussion than a product defect, could we have your help posting this to the [Troubleshooting Forum](http://www.mattermost.org/troubleshoot/)? 

Per above link, please include repro steps to make it easier to solve your issue. Also, please link back to your new post from this issue? 
```

##### Label: Please move to Feature Ideas forum

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME], appreciate your feedback, 

To keep feature idea discussions in one place, could we have your help: 

1. [Contributing this in the feature idea forum](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/) so it can be discussed, upvoted and considered for a [ticket accepting pull requests](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html)? 

   Please include a link back to this GitHub Issue. If you're interested in implementing, please say so and we'll prioritize the review. 

2. Posting a link back from the feature idea forum to this thread? 
```

##### Label: Please add repro steps 

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the bug report, 

Can you help [add more information](http://www.mattermost.org/filing-issues/) so we can reproduce the issue? 
```

##### Label: Please rebase 

```
Please rebase this Pull Request
```

### Category: We/community need to do something 

Start with "Needs..."

##### Label: Needs PR reviewer

Needs Reviewer to add `+1` or share feedback to submitter on how to adjust pull request. 

##### Label: Needs PR seconder

After code is reviewed, needs "Seconder" to add `+1` or share feedback to submitter on how to adjust pull request. 

##### Label: Needs PM review

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for your feedback. 

This ticket requires design review. Asking help from @[Core Team PM]
```

##### Label: Needs merge (review complete)

PR has been reviewed and seconded and is awaiting merge. 

##### Label: Needs Jira ticket

? + Assign to ?

Response after Jira ticket is created:

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME], [Jira ticket]([LINK_TO_JIRA_TICKET]) created for this issue. 
```

### Category: Miscellanous Issues

##### Label: Asking community help to repro 

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the issue report, 

Would anyone from the community be able to help repro this issue to verify it can be reproduced? 
```

##### Label: Duplicate Jira ticket

```
Thanks @[GITHUB_USERNAME] for the report, 

We have a [Jira Ticket]([LINK_TO_JIRA_TICKET]) tracking the issue. 
```

##### Label: Setup Test Server

Adding this label sets up a test server, removing it shuts down the test server. 

##### Label: Substantial commit

A PR that requires careful review due to size. 

##### Label: DO NOT MERGE 

A PR submitted for discussion that SHOULD NOT be merged.
