source/process/mindsets.rst, before:

============
Mindsets
============

Mindsets are "tool sets for the mind" that help us find blindspots and increase performance in specific situations. They're a reflection of our shared learnings and culture in the Mattermost community and at Mattermost Inc. 

To make the most out of mindsets, remember: 

- **Mindsets are tools** - Use common sense to find the right mindset for your situation. Avoid using ones that don't fit. 
- **Mindsets are temporary** - Try on a mindset the way you'd try a tool. You can always put it down if it doesn't work. 
- **Mindsets are not laws** - Mindsets are situation-specific, not universal. Don't use them to debate. 

When you read about great leaders, they share mindsets relevant to success in their specific situations, which differ from their peers. Remember that "advice is personal experience generalized" so be mindful about what you apply. 

In this context, here are mindsets for Mattermost: 

Learn, Master, Teach 
~~~~~

**Learn** a new topic quickly, develop **mastery** (be the smartest person at the team/company/community on the topic), then **teach** it to someone who will start the cycle over. 

If you're a strong teacher, their mastery should surpass yours. This mindset helps us constantly grow and rotate into new roles, while preventing "single-points of failure" where only one person is qualified for a certain task. 

Slow is smooth, smooth is fast 
~~~~~

When you rush to get something done quickly, it can actually increase the time and cost for the project. 

Rushing means a higher chance of missing things that need to be done, and the cost of doing them later is significantly higher because you have to re-create your original setup to add on the work. 

Assumption or Emotion 
~~~~~

What if there were only two reasons why people disagree? 

Either: 

1. There is an **emotion** in the way (and asking about this often solves the issue)
2. People have different underlying **assumptions** (including definitions, logic, priorities, etc.)

In this world, disagreements are best resolved by finding where your underlying assumptions differ, then: 

a. See if you can agree on assumptions through discussion, fact finding or applying `cultural values <https://docs.mattermost.com/process/handbook.html#values>`_, and
b. See if merely understanding each other's assumptions lets you get to a share decision

While this mindset won't work for everyone, it's helped resolve complex decisions in our company's history. 


Likes & Wishes 
~~~~~

An easy way to check in with team members about how things are going. 

- What do you *like* about how things are going? 
- What do you *wish* we might change? 

Use these one-on-one or in a group as a way to open conversations about what to keep and what to change in how we do things. 


Mini-boss, End-boss
~~~~~

When reviewing user interface design, pull requests, or marketing materials, there are ideally two reviewers: 

- **Mini-boss**: Reviewer with less experience to do the first review
- **End-boss**: More experienced reviewer to do the final review

This system has several benefits: 

1. The Mini-boss provides feedback on the most obvious issues, allowing the End-boss to focus on nuanced issues the Mini-boss didn't find.
2. The Mini-boss learns from the End-boss feedback, understanding what was missed, and becoming a better reviewer.
3. Eventually the Mini-boss will be as skilled at reviewing as the End-boss, who will have nothing futher to add after the Mini-boss review. At this point, the Mini-boss becomes an End-boss, ready to train a new Mini-boss.

Commit message:

Updating with "Emotion, Assumption, and Priority"

source/process/mindsets.rst, after:

============
Mindsets
============

Mindsets are "tool sets for the mind" that help us find blindspots and increase performance in specific situations. They're a reflection of our shared learnings and culture in the Mattermost community and at Mattermost Inc. 

To make the most out of mindsets, remember: 

- **Mindsets are tools** - Use common sense to find the right mindset for your situation. Avoid using ones that don't fit. 
- **Mindsets are temporary** - Try on a mindset the way you'd try a tool. You can always put it down if it doesn't work. 
- **Mindsets are not laws** - Mindsets are situation-specific, not universal. Don't use them to debate. 

When you read about great leaders, they share mindsets relevant to success in their specific situations, which differ from their peers. Remember that "advice is personal experience generalized" so be mindful about what you apply. 

In this context, here are mindsets for Mattermost: 

Learn, Master, Teach 
~~~~~

**Learn** a new topic quickly, develop **mastery** (be the smartest person at the team/company/community on the topic), then **teach** it to someone who will start the cycle over. 

If you're a strong teacher, their mastery should surpass yours. This mindset helps us constantly grow and rotate into new roles, while preventing "single-points of failure" where only one person is qualified for a certain task. 

Slow is smooth, smooth is fast 
~~~~~

When you rush to get something done quickly, it can actually increase the time and cost for the project. 

Rushing means a higher chance of missing things that need to be done, and the cost of doing them later is significantly higher because you have to re-create your original setup to add on the work. 

Emotion, Assumption, and Priority 
~~~~~

Consider when two rational people disagree, the cause often comes from one of three areas: 

1. **Emotion** - There could be an **emotion** biasing the discussion. Just asking if this might be the case can clear the issue. It's okay to have emotions. We are humans, not robots. 

2. **Assumption** - People may have different underlying **assumptions** (including definitions). Try to understand each other's assumptions and get to agreement or facts when you can. 

3. **Priorities** - Finally people can have different **priorities**. When everyone's priorities are shared and understood it's easier to find solutions that satisfy everyone's criteria. 

While the emotions, assumptions, priority mindset won't work for everyone in every case, it's helped resolve complex decisions in our company's history. 


Likes & Wishes 
~~~~~

An easy way to check in with team members about how things are going. 

- What do you *like* about how things are going? 
- What do you *wish* we might change? 

Use these one-on-one or in a group as a way to open conversations about what to keep and what to change in how we do things. 


Mini-boss, End-boss
~~~~~

When reviewing user interface design, pull requests, or marketing materials, there are ideally two reviewers: 

- **Mini-boss**: Reviewer with less experience to do the first review
- **End-boss**: More experienced reviewer to do the final review

This system has several benefits: 

1. The Mini-boss provides feedback on the most obvious issues, allowing the End-boss to focus on nuanced issues the Mini-boss didn't find.
2. The Mini-boss learns from the End-boss feedback, understanding what was missed, and becoming a better reviewer.
3. Eventually the Mini-boss will be as skilled at reviewing as the End-boss, who will have nothing futher to add after the Mini-boss review. At this point, the Mini-boss becomes an End-boss, ready to train a new Mini-boss.
