source/process/sg_general-guidelines.rst, before:

.. _general-guidelines:

General Guidelines
==================

The Mattermost documentation must be of high quality. It must be accurate and clear, and be presented with a style and tone that is appropriate for technical content.

Style Guide Applicability
-------------------------

The style guide applies to all end-user, developer, and administrator documentation that appears on the Mattermost documentation site at https://docs.mattermost.com.

Apply the style guide in the following situations:

- when you create a new document
- when you convert a document from Markdown to reStructuredText
- when you revise a document

When you revise a document, apply the style guide rules to the part that you changed. If you have time to update the rest of the document, then do so. If the scope is significantly greater than you originally anticipated, then do what you can and what makes sense, and then create an `issue in GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues>`_. Give the issue an appropriate title, such as *File XXX converted to .rst, but needs updating for style guide*.

Write in the Context of Achievement
-----------------------------------

The documentation should help Mattermost users and administrators achieve their goals. Write imperative sentences as much as possible. Imperative sentences begin with verbs and give instructions, information, and advice to help people install, administer, and use Mattermost with success.

Use positive constructs as much as possible, but note that a negative construct can act as a warning that causes a reader to pay closer attention to the content, resulting in higher levels of accomplishment.

.. much of the following section comes from the Ubuntu Documentation Style Guide, which is in the public domain.
Write to Facilitate Scanning
----------------------------

Readers need to find information quickly. People don't read documentation as much as they scan it for solutions to their immediate problem. Writing and presentation styles that seem redundant in essays or other texts are often helpful to people scanning for information.

Use Headings, Lists, and Emphasis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Format text to give a visual hierarchy that allows readers to see the overall content of the page by scanning it. Use headings, lists, and emphasis to signal importance. Headings should summarize the topic of the underlying information so that when readers scan a page, they can get an accurate picture of the contents.

Be clear
  Write short, active sentences using everyday vocabulary. Maintain a visual separation between page elements.
Be concise
  Minimize content so it can be found and remembered. Keep pages short, modular, and focused on a single topic.
Be consistent
  Refer to one thing or idea with the same word throughout the page.

Write for an International Audience
-----------------------------------

Mattermost documentation is translated into several languages for use in many countries and cultures. For this reason, you must consider cultural differences on a global scale. Names, places, events, and actions should be chosen as carefully as possible to avoid misunderstanding.

Also remember that English is not the primary language of many readers of the documentation. Keep the following advice in mind when writing:

- Choose words with one or very few meanings.
- Use simple verb forms in writing. Most verbs in the simple form are likely to have an equivalent in another language.
- Avoid jargon and slang words.
- Limit difficult words to technical terms where their use is unavoidable.
- Always make sure that your spelling is correct.

Word Usage Guidelines
---------------------

To promote consistency and clarity, follow the word usage and spelling guidelines in the following list.

login, log in, log into
  Use *login* as a noun or adjective, and *log in* and *log into* as verbs. For example: *Log into the Mattermost server using your System Admin login credentials.*

setup, set up
  Use *setup* as a noun or adjective, and *set up* as a verb. For example: *Set up your operating system as described in the Ubuntu documentation.*

sign-in, sign in, and sign into
  Use *sign-in* as a noun or adjective, and *sign in* and *sign into* as verbs. For example: *Sign into your Mattermost account using the sign-in credentials that were sent to you.*

single sign-on
  Single sign-on is abbreviated as SSO. When using the long form in a heading with title case, it's *Single Sign-on*.

can, might, may
  The word *may* can have several meanings. To avoid ambiguity, use *can* or *might* instead of *may*. Use *can* to mean *capable of* and *might* to mean that something is possible. Use *may* only to give permission to do something.

downtime
  Use as one word *downtime*, not *down time*.

Gender-neutral Text
-------------------

Avoid constructs where you are forced to write either *he or she* or *his or her*. You can use *they* or *their* as singular forms instead.

Preferred
  The community manager monitors the forum for well-written questions and answers, and posts them to the Contributors channel.
Avoid
  The community manager posts questions and answers that they think are well-written.
Do not use
  The community manager posts questions and answers that he or she thinks are well-written.

Commit message:

Added plural form of emoji

source/process/sg_general-guidelines.rst, after:

.. _general-guidelines:

General Guidelines
==================

The Mattermost documentation must be of high quality. It must be accurate and clear, and be presented with a style and tone that is appropriate for technical content.

Style Guide Applicability
-------------------------

The style guide applies to all end-user, developer, and administrator documentation that appears on the Mattermost documentation site at https://docs.mattermost.com.

Apply the style guide in the following situations:

- when you create a new document
- when you convert a document from Markdown to reStructuredText
- when you revise a document

When you revise a document, apply the style guide rules to the part that you changed. If you have time to update the rest of the document, then do so. If the scope is significantly greater than you originally anticipated, then do what you can and what makes sense, and then create an `issue in GitHub <https://github.com/mattermost/docs/issues>`_. Give the issue an appropriate title, such as *File XXX converted to .rst, but needs updating for style guide*.

Write in the Context of Achievement
-----------------------------------

The documentation should help Mattermost users and administrators achieve their goals. Write imperative sentences as much as possible. Imperative sentences begin with verbs and give instructions, information, and advice to help people install, administer, and use Mattermost with success.

Use positive constructs as much as possible, but note that a negative construct can act as a warning that causes a reader to pay closer attention to the content, resulting in higher levels of accomplishment.

.. much of the following section comes from the Ubuntu Documentation Style Guide, which is in the public domain.
Write to Facilitate Scanning
----------------------------

Readers need to find information quickly. People don't read documentation as much as they scan it for solutions to their immediate problem. Writing and presentation styles that seem redundant in essays or other texts are often helpful to people scanning for information.

Use Headings, Lists, and Emphasis
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Format text to give a visual hierarchy that allows readers to see the overall content of the page by scanning it. Use headings, lists, and emphasis to signal importance. Headings should summarize the topic of the underlying information so that when readers scan a page, they can get an accurate picture of the contents.

Be clear
  Write short, active sentences using everyday vocabulary. Maintain a visual separation between page elements.
Be concise
  Minimize content so it can be found and remembered. Keep pages short, modular, and focused on a single topic.
Be consistent
  Refer to one thing or idea with the same word throughout the page.

Write for an International Audience
-----------------------------------

Mattermost documentation is translated into several languages for use in many countries and cultures. For this reason, you must consider cultural differences on a global scale. Names, places, events, and actions should be chosen as carefully as possible to avoid misunderstanding.

Also remember that English is not the primary language of many readers of the documentation. Keep the following advice in mind when writing:

- Choose words with one or very few meanings.
- Use simple verb forms in writing. Most verbs in the simple form are likely to have an equivalent in another language.
- Avoid jargon and slang words.
- Limit difficult words to technical terms where their use is unavoidable.
- Always make sure that your spelling is correct.

Word Usage Guidelines
---------------------

To promote consistency and clarity, follow the word usage and spelling guidelines in the following list.

can, might, may
  The word *may* can have several meanings. To avoid ambiguity, use *can* or *might* instead of *may*. Use *can* to mean *capable of* and *might* to mean that something is possible. Use *may* only to give permission to do something.

downtime
  Use as one word *downtime*, not *down time*.

emoji, emojis
  Use *emojis* as the plural form of *emoji*.

login, log in, log into
  Use *login* as a noun or adjective, and *log in* and *log into* as verbs. For example: *Log into the Mattermost server using your System Admin login credentials.*

setup, set up
  Use *setup* as a noun or adjective, and *set up* as a verb. For example: *Set up your operating system as described in the Ubuntu documentation.*

sign-in, sign in, and sign into
  Use *sign-in* as a noun or adjective, and *sign in* and *sign into* as verbs. For example: *Sign into your Mattermost account using the sign-in credentials that were sent to you.*

single sign-on
  Single sign-on is abbreviated as SSO. When using the long form in a heading with title case, it's *Single Sign-on*.

Gender-neutral Text
-------------------

Avoid constructs where you are forced to write either *he or she* or *his or her*. You can use *they* or *their* as singular forms instead.

Preferred
  The community manager monitors the forum for well-written questions and answers, and posts them to the Contributors channel.
Avoid
  The community manager posts questions and answers that they think are well-written.
Do not use
  The community manager posts questions and answers that he or she thinks are well-written.
