source/process/training.rst, before:


Training 
--------

At Mattermost, Inc., "Learn, Master, Teach" cycles are core to our culture. 

We want you to constantly grow and cross-train into new skills and responsibilities, develop effective expertise, and then train your replacement as you prepare to take on new challenges. 

Cross-training creates a culture of constant growth, protects against "single-points of failure", and challenges each of us to rise to our fullest potential. 


Roles
=====

The "Learn, Master, Teach" cycle happens in the context of roles. Roles are sets of responsibility needed to achieve objectives. Roles aren't necessarily job titles, for small projects, a developer might take on a product manager role, or vice versa. Each team member has a "primary role" and training should move people to mastery and teaching in that role, before moving to the next role. 

Developer
^^^^^

Developers are responsible for architecting and delivering software improvements, and for technical leadership among the Mattermost community. 

- Architecture 
    - Developers are responsible for researching, analyzing, designing and reviewing technical solutions to achieve functional requirements. Solutions should thoroughly consider trade-offs and be evaluated based on the effectiveness of the end implementation. 

- Delivery 
   - Based on technical designs, developers estimate, implement, test, maintain, review, debug and release software improvements in collaboration with teammates. This includes working closely with product managers to validate requirements and the output of designs and making appropriate adjustments. The success of implementation is judged on the end results achieved by the changes. 

- Technical Community Leadership
   - As leading experts on Mattermost technology, developers support and engage constantly with the broader Mattermost community to accelerate adoption and to discover new ways to improve Mattermost software and processes. This includes investigating and  supporting issues from users and customers, reviewing and providing feedback on projects from contributors, and understanding priorities, trends and patterns across the community. 

Product Managers
^^^^^

Product managers are responsible for aligning teams to strategic priorities, leading and managing the product development process, and working effectively with marketing to bring the full benefits of Mattermost solutions to users and customers. 

- Strategy 
   - Every project and every team needs to align to strategic priorities and focus on intended outcomes developed through a deep understanding of the market, user, customers and competing products and services. Amid a flood of compelling suggestions, opinions, and data, product managers must find what's vital, and rally teams around a shared vision. 

- Product development 
   - Product managers lead both the functional design process (user, customer and competitor research, analysis, ideation, prioritization, functional and user experience design, functional specification, user and customer validation), and the software development process (ticketing, prioritization, roadmap design, scheduling, sprint planning, triage, functional verification, implementation validation with users and customers, documentation, and release logistics). 
   - It's the product manager's responsibility to see features shipped predictably and at high quality through planning, attention to detail and thoughtful persuasion. 
   
- Marketing connection 
   - Delivering benefits to users and customers based on product features is a core responsibility of product managers, working in conjunction with marketing to shape messaging and positioning and delivering collateral, events, and user and customer discussions to support sales. 
   
Resources 
=====

The following is a list of recommended resources for developing skills "the Mattermost way" in different areas. For the ones that require purchase you can message @matterbot to request an order, whether as physical books, digital books, audiobooks or other formats. 


Developers
^^^^^

Books 
^^^^^^

- `Code Compete, Steve McConnell <https://www.amazon.com/Code-Complete-Practical-Handbook-Construction/dp/0735619670>`_ - Best practices and guidelines for writing high quality code.
- `Design Patterns,  Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides (aka "Group of Four") <https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented-ebook/dp/B000SEIBB8>`_ - Fundamental reading on design patterns. Other design pattern books work too, this is one of the most popular. 

Product Management 
^^^^^

Courses

- `Harvard Business School PM 101 <https://sites.google.com/site/hbspm101/home/2015-16-sessions/the-mrd-customer-discovery>`_

High Performance Teams 
^^^^^

Books

1. `High Output Management. Andy Grove <https://www.amazon.com/dp/B015VACHOK/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1>`_ - Potentially the most important book on management you'll ever read. From formoer CEO of Intel.
2. `Creativity, Inc. Ed Catmull <https://www.amazon.com/Creativity-Inc-Overcoming-Unseen-Inspiration-ebook/dp/B00FUZQYBO/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393928&sr=1-1&keywords=creativity%2C+inc>`_ - Achieving high performance through process and culture. From CEO fo Pixar.
3. `How to Win Friends and Influence People <https://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People-ebook/dp/B003WEAI4E/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466394700&sr=1-1&keywords=how+to+win+friends+and+influence+people>`_ - How to build interpersonal skills to work more effectively in teams. 

Culture 
^^^^^

Video

1. `Tribes. Seth Godin at TED <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_on_the_tribes_we_lead>`_  (17m) Creating effective teams through bottoms-up culture. 

Books

1. `Tribes. Seth Godin <https://www.amazon.com/Tribes-We-Need-You-Lead/dp/1591842336?ie=UTF8&ref_=asap_bc>`_ - Creating effective teams through bottoms-up culture. 
2. `Inside Apple. Adam Lashinsky <https://www.amazon.com/Inside-Apple-Americas-Admired---Secretive--Company-ebook/dp/B005LH4Y3G/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393946&sr=1-1&keywords=inside+apple>`_ - Achieving high performance in top-down culture. 


Marketing
^^^^^

Video

- `Getting Ideas to Spread. Seth Godin. TED. <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_on_sliced_bread#t-631421>`_ (17m) - Focus your messaging on a clear target market, not the "average". 

Books

1. `Marketing Principles (1-2h read) <http://www.barcharts.com/9781423215042-details.aspx#.V2dn3vkrJ1M>`_ - Crash course on marketing terminology and concepts.
2. `All Marketers Tell Stories, Seth Godin <https://www.amazon.com/All-Marketers-Are-Liars-Works---ebook/dp/B00315QK8M/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393785&sr=1-1&keywords=%22all+marketers+are+liars%22>`_ - Ideas for creating compelling messages. 

High Performance Mindsets 
^^^^^

Books

1. `Checklist Manifesto. Atul Gawande <https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0030V0PEW/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1>`_ - How to reduce errors by reducing complexity using checklists. 
2. `Getting Things Done. David Allen <https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0142000280>`_ - How to do more in less time. 

Software Development Process
^^^^^

1. `Scrum. Jeff Sutherland <https://www.amazon.com/Scrum-Doing-Twice-Work-Half/dp/038534645X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1466396699&sr=8-1&keywords=scrum>`_ (256 pages) - One point of view on agile software development, with examples. 

2. `ISTQB Certification Study Guide <http://istqbexamcertification.com/>`_ - Common terminology & process in software development. 

Quality 
^^^^^

Video 

1. `This is broken. Seth Godin <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_this_is_broken_1>`_ (~20m) - Why bad design happens. 


Interaction Design 
^^^^^

Primer

1. `Stanford Design School "bootcamp bootleg" <https://dschool.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/BootcampBootleg2010v2SLIM.pdf>`_ (47 pages) - Crash course in "design thinking".

Video

1. `IDEA shopping cart project <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=taJOV-YCieI>`_ (22m) - Illustration of design thinking 

Books

1. `Don't Make Me Think, Revisited. Steven Krug <https://www.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Think-Revisited-Usability/dp/0321965515/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393824&sr=1-1&keywords=don%27t+make+me+think>`_ - Principles of effective UX design.
2. `Evil by Design. Chris Nodder <https://www.amazon.com/Evil-Design-Interaction-Lead-Temptation/dp/1118422147/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393849&sr=1-1&keywords=evil+by+design>`_ - Pitfalls of effective UX design.

Blogs 

1. `Nielsen Norman Group <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/>`_ - Many good articles and concepts on UX design.

Commit message:

Adding security readings
- Also some minor formatting tweaks

source/process/training.rst, after:


Training 
--------

At Mattermost, Inc., "Learn, Master, Teach" cycles are core to our culture. 

We want you to constantly grow and cross-train into new skills and responsibilities, develop effective expertise, and then train your replacement as you prepare to take on new challenges. 

Cross-training creates a culture of constant growth, protects against "single-points of failure", and challenges each of us to rise to our fullest potential. 


Roles
=====

The "Learn, Master, Teach" cycle happens in the context of roles. Roles are sets of responsibility needed to achieve objectives. Roles aren't necessarily job titles, for small projects, a developer might take on a product manager role, or vice versa. Each team member has a "primary role" and training should move people to mastery and teaching in that role, before moving to the next role. 

Developer
^^^^^

Developers are responsible for architecting and delivering software improvements, and for technical leadership among the Mattermost community. 

- Architecture 
    - Developers are responsible for researching, analyzing, designing and reviewing technical solutions to achieve functional requirements. Solutions should thoroughly consider trade-offs and be evaluated based on the effectiveness of the end implementation. 

- Delivery 
   - Based on technical designs, developers estimate, implement, test, maintain, review, debug and release software improvements in collaboration with teammates. This includes working closely with product managers to validate requirements and the output of designs and making appropriate adjustments. The success of implementation is judged on the end results achieved by the changes. 

- Technical Community Leadership
   - As leading experts on Mattermost technology, developers support and engage constantly with the broader Mattermost community to accelerate adoption and to discover new ways to improve Mattermost software and processes. This includes investigating and  supporting issues from users and customers, reviewing and providing feedback on projects from contributors, and understanding priorities, trends and patterns across the community. 

Product Managers
^^^^^

Product managers are responsible for aligning teams to strategic priorities, leading and managing the product development process, and working effectively with marketing to bring the full benefits of Mattermost solutions to users and customers. 

- Strategy 
   - Every project and every team needs to align to strategic priorities and focus on intended outcomes developed through a deep understanding of the market, user, customers and competing products and services. Amid a flood of compelling suggestions, opinions, and data, product managers must find what's vital, and rally teams around a shared vision. 

- Product development 
   - Product managers lead both the functional design process (user, customer and competitor research, analysis, ideation, prioritization, functional and user experience design, functional specification, user and customer validation), and the software development process (ticketing, prioritization, roadmap design, scheduling, sprint planning, triage, functional verification, implementation validation with users and customers, documentation, and release logistics). 
   - It's the product manager's responsibility to see features shipped predictably and at high quality through planning, attention to detail and thoughtful persuasion. 
   
- Marketing connection 
   - Delivering benefits to users and customers based on product features is a core responsibility of product managers, working in conjunction with marketing to shape messaging and positioning and delivering collateral, events, and user and customer discussions to support sales. 
   
Resources 
=====

The following is a list of recommended resources for developing skills "the Mattermost way" in different areas. For the ones that require purchase you can message @matterbot to request an order, whether as physical books, digital books, audiobooks or other formats. 


Developers
^^^^^

Books 
^^^^^^

1. `Code Compete, Steve McConnell <https://www.amazon.com/Code-Complete-Practical-Handbook-Construction/dp/0735619670>`_ - Best practices and guidelines for writing high quality code.
2. `Design Patterns,  Erich Gamma, Richard Helm, Ralph Johnson and John Vlissides (aka "Group of Four") <https://www.amazon.com/Design-Patterns-Elements-Reusable-Object-Oriented-ebook/dp/B000SEIBB8>`_ - Fundamental reading on design patterns. Other design pattern books work too, this is one of the most popular. 

Product Management 
^^^^^

Courses

1. `Harvard Business School PM 101 <https://sites.google.com/site/hbspm101/home/2015-16-sessions/the-mrd-customer-discovery>`_

System Security 
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Papers 

1. `Computer Security in the Real World. Butler Lampson <http://research.microsoft.com/en-us/um/people/blampson/69-SecurityRealIEEE/69-SecurityRealIEEE.pdf>`_ - Fundamental challenges with system security.
2. `Course notes from CS513: System Security (Cornell University). Fred B. Schneider <http://www.cs.cornell.edu/courses/cs513/2007fa/02.outline.html>`_ - Well written introduction to system security from one of the leaders in the field.


High Performance Teams 
^^^^^

Books

1. `High Output Management. Andy Grove <https://www.amazon.com/dp/B015VACHOK/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1>`_ - Potentially the most important book on management you'll ever read. From formoer CEO of Intel.
2. `Creativity, Inc. Ed Catmull <https://www.amazon.com/Creativity-Inc-Overcoming-Unseen-Inspiration-ebook/dp/B00FUZQYBO/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393928&sr=1-1&keywords=creativity%2C+inc>`_ - Achieving high performance through process and culture. From CEO fo Pixar.
3. `How to Win Friends and Influence People <https://www.amazon.com/How-Win-Friends-Influence-People-ebook/dp/B003WEAI4E/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466394700&sr=1-1&keywords=how+to+win+friends+and+influence+people>`_ - How to build interpersonal skills to work more effectively in teams. 

Culture 
^^^^^

Video

1. `Tribes. Seth Godin at TED <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_on_the_tribes_we_lead>`_  (17m) Creating effective teams through bottoms-up culture. 

Books

1. `Tribes. Seth Godin <https://www.amazon.com/Tribes-We-Need-You-Lead/dp/1591842336?ie=UTF8&ref_=asap_bc>`_ - Creating effective teams through bottoms-up culture. 
2. `Inside Apple. Adam Lashinsky <https://www.amazon.com/Inside-Apple-Americas-Admired---Secretive--Company-ebook/dp/B005LH4Y3G/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393946&sr=1-1&keywords=inside+apple>`_ - Achieving high performance in top-down culture. 


Marketing
^^^^^

Video

- `Getting Ideas to Spread. Seth Godin. TED. <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_on_sliced_bread#t-631421>`_ (17m) - Focus your messaging on a clear target market, not the "average". 

Books

1. `Marketing Principles (1-2h read) <http://www.barcharts.com/9781423215042-details.aspx#.V2dn3vkrJ1M>`_ - Crash course on marketing terminology and concepts.
2. `All Marketers Tell Stories, Seth Godin <https://www.amazon.com/All-Marketers-Are-Liars-Works---ebook/dp/B00315QK8M/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393785&sr=1-1&keywords=%22all+marketers+are+liars%22>`_ - Ideas for creating compelling messages. 

High Performance Mindsets 
^^^^^

Books

1. `Checklist Manifesto. Atul Gawande <https://www.amazon.com/dp/B0030V0PEW/ref=dp-kindle-redirect?_encoding=UTF8&btkr=1>`_ - How to reduce errors by reducing complexity using checklists. 
2. `Getting Things Done. David Allen <https://www.amazon.com/Getting-Things-Done-Stress-Free-Productivity/dp/0142000280>`_ - How to do more in less time. 

Software Development Process
^^^^^

1. `Scrum. Jeff Sutherland <https://www.amazon.com/Scrum-Doing-Twice-Work-Half/dp/038534645X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1466396699&sr=8-1&keywords=scrum>`_ (256 pages) - One point of view on agile software development, with examples. 

2. `ISTQB Certification Study Guide <http://istqbexamcertification.com/>`_ - Common terminology & process in software development. 

Quality 
^^^^^

Video 

1. `This is broken. Seth Godin <https://www.ted.com/talks/seth_godin_this_is_broken_1>`_ (~20m) - Why bad design happens. 


Interaction Design 
^^^^^

Primer

1. `Stanford Design School "bootcamp bootleg" <https://dschool.stanford.edu/wp-content/uploads/2011/03/BootcampBootleg2010v2SLIM.pdf>`_ (47 pages) - Crash course in "design thinking".

Video

1. `IDEA shopping cart project <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=taJOV-YCieI>`_ (22m) - Illustration of design thinking 

Books

1. `Don't Make Me Think, Revisited. Steven Krug <https://www.amazon.com/Dont-Make-Think-Revisited-Usability/dp/0321965515/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393824&sr=1-1&keywords=don%27t+make+me+think>`_ - Principles of effective UX design.
2. `Evil by Design. Chris Nodder <https://www.amazon.com/Evil-Design-Interaction-Lead-Temptation/dp/1118422147/ref=sr_1_1?s=books&ie=UTF8&qid=1466393849&sr=1-1&keywords=evil+by+design>`_ - Pitfalls of effective UX design.

Blogs 

1. `Nielsen Norman Group <https://www.nngroup.com/articles/>`_ - Many good articles and concepts on UX design.
