source/messaging/extending-messaging-with-integrations.md, before:

## Integrations

Settings for integrations are accessible from the **Main Menu**. Select **Integrations** to open a page where you can view and configure incoming webhooks, outgoing webhooks, and slash commands for your team. If you can't see an **Integrations** option, then your System Admin may have only given Admins access.

[Visit our Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) for dozens of open source integrations to common tools like Jira, Jenkins, GitLab, Trac, Redmine, and Bitbucket, along with interactive bot applications (Hubot, mattermost-bot), and other communication tools (Email, IRC, XMPP, Threema) that are freely available for use and customization.

### Microsoft integrations

There are several ways to connect your Microsoft tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Office 365 Calendar (E20)

- Two-way integration between Mattermost and Office 365 Calendar, developed by Mattermost.
- Receive a daily summary of calendar events, and accept or decline new events.
- Reflect user status as "Do Not Disturb" when in a meeting scheduled via Outlook Calendar.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.

#### Skype for Business

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screen-sharing with your team members. Developed by kosgrz and maintained by Mattermost.
- Selecting a video icon in a Mattermost channel invites team members to join a Skype for Business call, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Supports a vendor-hosted cloud solution.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
- [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-skype4business)

#### Office 365 SSO (E20)

- Configure Mattermost to use your Office 365 credentials and Azure Active Directory account as a single sign-on (SSO) service, developed by Mattermost.
- Supports Microsoft Active Directory Tenants for team creation, account creation, and Single Sign-On (SSO).
- Receive a daily summary of calendar events, and accept or decline new events.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.

### CI/CD integrations

There are several ways to connect your CI/CD tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### GitHub

 - Two-way integration between Mattermost and GitHub, developed by Mattermost.
 - Get reminders on issues and pull requests that need your attention.
 - Get notifications in Mattermost about mentions, review requests, and comments.
 - Supports GitHub Enterprise, works with SaaS and Enterprise versions of GitHub.
 - Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
 - [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-github)

#### GitLab

 - Two-way integration between Mattermost and GitLab, developed by Romain Maneschi, supported by Mattermost.
 - Get reminders on issues and merge requests that need your attention.
 - Get notifications in Mattermost about mentions, review requests, and comments.
 - Supports SaaS and on-prem versions of GitLab.
 - Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
 - [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-gitlab)

### Atlassian integrations

There are several ways to connect Atlassian tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Confluence

- Atlassian Marketplace application for Confluence and Mattermost, developed by codefortynine.
- Send notifications about page, blogpost, question, or comment updates from your Confluence spaces to Mattermost channels.
- Configure notifications for a specific space, and also user notifications for tasks and mentions.
- Supports Confluence Cloud, Server, and Data Center platforms.
- [Marketplace download and documentation](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222417/mattermost-connector-for-confluence)

#### Jira Plugin

- Two-way integration between Mattermost and Jira, developed by Mattermost.
- Send event notifications from your Jira projects to Mattermost channels, with full JQL filtering support.
- Create and transition Jira issues, and attach Mattermost messages to Jira in the Mattermost user interface.
- Supports Jira Core and Jira Software products, for Cloud, Server, and Data Center platforms.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-jira)

### Productivity integrations

There are several ways to connect your productivity tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Google Calendar

 - Time management tool for Google Calendar, developed by Wasim Thabraze.
 - Get reminders about appointments and meetings from a configured Google Calendar to any Mattermost channel.
 - [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/waseem18/mattermost-plugin-google-calendar)

#### Remind Plugin

 - A Mattermost plugin that sets reminders for users and channels, developed by Scott Lee Davis.
 - Set reminders for one-time or recurring events and tasks in any Mattermost channel.
 - [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/scottleedavis/mattermost-plugin-remind)

### Voice, video, and screensharing integrations

There are several ways to work with voice, video, and screensharing in Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Zoom

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screensharing with your team members, developed by Mattermost.
- Click a video icon in a Mattermost channel to invite team members to join a Zoom call, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Requires one paid `Zoom Pro, Business, Education, or API plan <https://zoom.us/pricing>`_ to generate an API key and secret.
- Supports a self-hosted cloud solution and a vendor-hosted cloud solution.
- [Documentation](https://mattermost.gitbook.io/plugin-zoom/)
- [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-zoom)

#### Microsoft Teams Meetings

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screensharing with your team members, developed by Mattermost.
- Select a video icon in a Mattermost channel to invite team members to join a Microsoft Teams Meeting, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Requires a Microsoft Teams account.
- Requires Mattermost Enterprise Edition E20.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-msteams-meetings)

## Incoming Webhooks

Incoming webhooks from external integrations can post messages to Mattermost in Public and Private channels. Learn more about setting up incoming webhooks in our [documentation](https://developers.mattermost.com/integrate/admin-guide/admin-webhooks-incoming/).

## Outgoing Webhooks

Outgoing webhooks use trigger words to fire new message events to external integrations. For security reasons, outgoing webhooks are only available in public channels. Learn more about setting up outgoing webhooks on our [documentation page](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-outgoing.html).

## Slash Commands

Slash commands allow users to interact with external applications by typing `/` followed by a command. See [executing slash commands](https://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/executing-commands.html) for a list of built-in commands. Learn more about setting up custom slash commands on our [documentation page](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/slash-commands.html).

Commit message:

Added new redirect and a new bots file for integrations (#5049)
* Update conf.py

Added a new redirect for the Atlassian tools page.

* Update extending-messaging-with-integrations.md

Added bots to integrations list.

* Update conf.py

Added bot integration redirect.

* Update source/conf.py

Fixed a missing comma in redirect.

Co-authored-by: Carrie Warner (Mattermost) <74422101+cwarnermm@users.noreply.github.com>

Co-authored-by: Carrie Warner (Mattermost) <74422101+cwarnermm@users.noreply.github.com>

source/messaging/extending-messaging-with-integrations.md, after:

## Integrations

Settings for integrations are accessible from the **Main Menu**. Select **Integrations** to open a page where you can view and configure incoming webhooks, outgoing webhooks, and slash commands for your team. If you can't see an **Integrations** option, then your System Admin may have only given Admins access.

[Visit our Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) for dozens of open source integrations to common tools like Jira, Jenkins, GitLab, Trac, Redmine, and Bitbucket, along with interactive bot applications (Hubot, mattermost-bot), and other communication tools (Email, IRC, XMPP, Threema) that are freely available for use and customization.

### Microsoft integrations

There are several ways to connect your Microsoft tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Office 365 Calendar (E20)

- Two-way integration between Mattermost and Office 365 Calendar, developed by Mattermost.
- Receive a daily summary of calendar events, and accept or decline new events.
- Reflect user status as "Do Not Disturb" when in a meeting scheduled via Outlook Calendar.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.

#### Skype for Business

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screen-sharing with your team members. Developed by kosgrz and maintained by Mattermost.
- Selecting a video icon in a Mattermost channel invites team members to join a Skype for Business call, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Supports a vendor-hosted cloud solution.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
- [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-skype4business)

#### Office 365 SSO (E20)

- Configure Mattermost to use your Office 365 credentials and Azure Active Directory account as a single sign-on (SSO) service, developed by Mattermost.
- Supports Microsoft Active Directory Tenants for team creation, account creation, and Single Sign-On (SSO).
- Receive a daily summary of calendar events, and accept or decline new events.
- Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.

### CI/CD integrations

There are several ways to connect your CI/CD tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### GitHub

 - Two-way integration between Mattermost and GitHub, developed by Mattermost.
 - Get reminders on issues and pull requests that need your attention.
 - Get notifications in Mattermost about mentions, review requests, and comments.
 - Supports GitHub Enterprise, works with SaaS and Enterprise versions of GitHub.
 - Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
 - [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-github)

#### GitLab

 - Two-way integration between Mattermost and GitLab, developed by Romain Maneschi, supported by Mattermost.
 - Get reminders on issues and merge requests that need your attention.
 - Get notifications in Mattermost about mentions, review requests, and comments.
 - Supports SaaS and on-prem versions of GitLab.
 - Visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to install, configure, and use this integration.
 - [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-gitlab)

### Atlassian integrations

There are several ways to connect Atlassian tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Confluence

- Atlassian Marketplace application for Confluence and Mattermost, developed by codefortynine.
- Send notifications about page, blogpost, question, or comment updates from your Confluence spaces to Mattermost channels.
- Configure notifications for a specific space, and also user notifications for tasks and mentions.
- Supports Confluence Cloud, Server, and Data Center platforms.
- [Marketplace download and documentation](https://marketplace.atlassian.com/apps/1222417/mattermost-connector-for-confluence)

#### Jira Plugin

- Two-way integration between Mattermost and Jira, developed by Mattermost.
- Send event notifications from your Jira projects to Mattermost channels, with full JQL filtering support.
- Create and transition Jira issues, and attach Mattermost messages to Jira in the Mattermost user interface.
- Supports Jira Core and Jira Software products, for Cloud, Server, and Data Center platforms.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-jira)

### Productivity integrations

There are several ways to connect your productivity tools to Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Google Calendar

 - Time management tool for Google Calendar, developed by Wasim Thabraze.
 - Get reminders about appointments and meetings from a configured Google Calendar to any Mattermost channel.
 - [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/waseem18/mattermost-plugin-google-calendar)

#### Remind Plugin

 - A Mattermost plugin that sets reminders for users and channels, developed by Scott Lee Davis.
 - Set reminders for one-time or recurring events and tasks in any Mattermost channel.
 - [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/scottleedavis/mattermost-plugin-remind)

### Voice, video, and screensharing integrations

There are several ways to work with voice, video, and screensharing in Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### Zoom

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screensharing with your team members, developed by Mattermost.
- Click a video icon in a Mattermost channel to invite team members to join a Zoom call, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Requires one paid `Zoom Pro, Business, Education, or API plan <https://zoom.us/pricing>`_ to generate an API key and secret.
- Supports a self-hosted cloud solution and a vendor-hosted cloud solution.
- [Documentation](https://mattermost.gitbook.io/plugin-zoom/)
- [Source code](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-zoom)

#### Microsoft Teams Meetings

- Start and join voice calls, video calls, and use screensharing with your team members, developed by Mattermost.
- Select a video icon in a Mattermost channel to invite team members to join a Microsoft Teams Meeting, hosted using the credentials of the user who initiated the call.
- Requires a Microsoft Teams account.
- Requires Mattermost Enterprise Edition E20.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-msteams-meetings)

### Bot integrations

There are several ways to connect bots with Mattermost. Take a look at the tools recommended below, or visit the [Marketplace](https://mattermost.com/marketplace/) to find others.

#### WelcomeBot

- Welcome users to your Mattermost instance, developed by Mattermost.
- Add a Welcome Bot that helps add new team members to channels to improve onboarding and HR processes.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-plugin-welcomebot)

#### Sample Golang bot

- Sample bot for Go driver, developed by Mattermost.
- Learn how to use the Mattermost Go driver to interact with a Mattermost server, listen to events and respond to messages.
- Use the API for simple tasks such as logging in to your server, creating a channel, and posting a message.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-bot-sample-golang)

#### Hubot Adapter

- Hubot adapter for Mattermost written in JavaScript that uses Web API and Websockets, developed by Andy Lo-A-Foe.
- Use the bot to listen for commands and to execute actions based on your requests.
- Invite your bot to any Mattermost channel just like a regular user.
- [Source code and documentation](https://github.com/loafoe/hubot-matteruser)

## Incoming Webhooks

Incoming webhooks from external integrations can post messages to Mattermost in Public and Private channels. Learn more about setting up incoming webhooks in our [documentation](https://developers.mattermost.com/integrate/admin-guide/admin-webhooks-incoming/).

## Outgoing Webhooks

Outgoing webhooks use trigger words to fire new message events to external integrations. For security reasons, outgoing webhooks are only available in public channels. Learn more about setting up outgoing webhooks on our [documentation page](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/webhooks-outgoing.html).

## Slash Commands

Slash commands allow users to interact with external applications by typing `/` followed by a command. See [executing slash commands](https://docs.mattermost.com/help/messaging/executing-commands.html) for a list of built-in commands. Learn more about setting up custom slash commands on our [documentation page](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/slash-commands.html).
