source/messaging/searching-in-mattermost.rst, before:

Searching
=========

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Use the Mattermost Search field to find messages, replies, and the contents of files shared across all channels you're a member of in your team's conversation history. File content search is available in Mattermost Server from v5.35 and in Mattermost Cloud, with mobile support coming soon.

.. image:: ../images/ui_search.png
   :alt: Use Search to find messages, replies, and the contents of files shared across channels.

You can also do more advanced search using `search modifiers <https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/searching-in-mattermost.html#search-modifiers>`__.

.. tabs::
  
  .. tab:: Mattermost v6.1 onwards

    From Mattermost v6.1, your search results include messages from all of your teams.

  .. tab:: Mattermost v6.0 and earlier

    In Mattermost versions up to v6.0, your search results include messages from your current team only.

Searching for message contents 
------------------------------

Select the Search field, then type your search criteria. 

.. image:: ../images/search-messages.png

When message results display in the Search Results pane, select **Jump** to view the full message in context.

.. image:: ../images/jump-to-message.png

.. tip::
  Message results return first automatically if a message search isn't specified. In the Search Results pane, select **Messages** or **Files** to toggle between results.
  
Searching for file contents
---------------------------

Select the **Search** field, select **Files**, then type your search criteria. 

.. image:: ../images/search-files.png

File contents that match on file name, or contain matching text content within supported document types, are returned in the Search Results pane. Each search result includes file name, extension, and size details, as well as details about when and where the file was originally shared.

- For Mattermost Cloud workspaces, supported document file formats include PDF, PPTX, DOCX, ODT, HTML, and plain text documents. DOC, RTF, and PAGES file formats, as well as the contents of ZIP files, are not supported.
- For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, supported document file formats include PDF, PPTX, DOCX, ODT, HTML, and plain text documents. 

  - System Admins can extend file content search support for self-hosted deployments to include:
  
    - `files shared before upgrading to Mattermost Server v5.35 <https://docs.mattermost.com/manage/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-extract-documents-content>`__.
    - `DOC, RTF, and PAGES file formats <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#enable-document-search-by-content>`__.
    - `documents within ZIP files <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#enable-searching-content-of-documents-within-zip-files>`__.

To narrow search results further, in the Search Results pane, select the **File Type Filter** option, then select specific file types, such as documents, spreadsheets, or images.
  
.. image:: ../images/file-search-filter.png

.. tip::
  Select the **Channel Files** icon below the channel name to access files recently shared in that channel. 
  
  .. image:: ../images/channel-files-icon.png

Search modifiers
----------------

You can apply search modifiers to any search to reduce the number of results returned. Select a search modifier to add it to the Search field. Supported modifiers are described below.

.. image:: ../images/search-modifiers.png

``from:`` and ``in:``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Use ``from:`` to find messages or files from specific users. 

  * For example, searching ``from:john.smith`` only returns content from your Direct Message history with John Smith.

- Use ``in:`` to find messages or files posted in specific Public channels, Private channels, Direct Messages, or Group Messages. You can specify channels by display name or channel ID. 
  
  * For example, searching ``Mattermost in:town-square`` only returns results in the Town Square Public channel that contains the term ``Mattermost``, while searching ``Mattermost in:john.doe`` only returns results that contains the term ``Mattermost`` in your Direct Message history with John Smith.

``before:``, ``after:``, and ``on:``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Use ``before:`` to find messages or files posted before a specified date.

  * For example, searching ``website before: 2018-09-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted prior to September 1, 2018.

- Use ``after:`` to find messages or files posted after a specified date.

  * For example, searching ``website after: 2018-08-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted after August 1, 2018.

- Use both ``before:`` and ``after:`` together to search in a specified date range.

  * For example, searching ``website before: 2018-09-01 after: 2018-08-01`` returns all messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted between August 1, 2018 and September 1, 2018.

- Use ``on:`` to find messages files posted on a specific date. Use the date picker to select a date, or type it in YYYY-MM-DD format.

  * For example, searching ``website on: 2018-09-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted on September 1, 2018.

.. image:: ../images/calendar2.png
  :width: 300 px

Exclusions
~~~~~~~~~~

Use the hyphen ``-`` symbol to exclude terms from your search results. For example, searching ``test -release`` only returns results that include the term ``test`` and exclude the term ``release``.

This exclusion modifier can be used in combination with other modifiers to further refine search results. For example, searching ``test -release -in:release-discussion -from:eric`` returns all results with the term ``test``, excludes posts with the term ``release``, excludes posts made in the ``release-discussion`` channel, and excludes messages sent in Direct Messages by ``eric``.

Quotation Marks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use quotation marks ``" "`` to return search results for exact terms. For example, searching ``"Mattermost website"`` returns messages containing the exact phrase ``Mattermost website``, but doesn't return results containing ``Mattermost`` and ``website`` as separate terms.

Wildcard
~~~~~~~~

Use the asterisk ``*`` symbol for wildcard searches that match within words. For example, searching ``rea*`` returns messages or files containing ``reach``, ``reason``, ``reality``, ``real``, and other words starting with ``rea``.

Hashtags
--------

Hashtags are searchable labels for messages. Anyone can create a hashtag in a message by using the pound sign ``#`` followed by alphanumeric or other unicode characters. Hashtag examples include: ``#bug``, ``#marketing``, ``#user_testing``, ``#per.iod``, ``#check-in``, ``#마케팅``.

Valid hashtags:

- Don't start with a number.
- Are at least three characters long, excluding the ``#``.
- Are made up of alphanumeric or other unicode characters.
- May contain dots, dashes, or underscores.

To search for messages containing hashtags, select a hashtag in an existing post, or type the hashtag (including the pound ``#`` symbol) into the search bar. 

.. note::
  
  Hashtags don't link to channels. If you have a channel named “Marketing”, selecting a ``#marketing`` hashtag does not take you to the Marketing channel. To link to public channels, use the tilde ``~`` symbol followed by the channel name. For example ``~marketing``.

Notes about all searches
------------------------

- Multiple-word searches return results that contain *all* of your search criteria.
- Search modifiers can help narrow down searches. See the `Search Modifiers`_ section for details.
- You can search Archived channels as long as you're a member of that channel.

  - If you're unable to see messages or files in archived channels in your search results, ask your System Admin if **Allow users to view archived channels** has been disabled under **System Console > Site Configuration > Users and Teams**.
  - To remove archived channels from your search results, you can leave the Archived channels.
- Like many search engines, common words such as ``the``, ``which``, and ``are`` (known as "stop words"), as well as two-letter and one-letter search terms, are not shown in search results because they typically return too many results. See the `Technical Notes`_ section for details.
- IP addresses (e.g. ``10.100.200.101``) don't return results.

Technical notes
---------------

Searching Chinese, Korean, and Japanese
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The best experience for searching in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese is to use MySQL 5.7.6 or later with special configuration. See the `Chinese, Japanese and Korean Search documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/i18n.html>`__ for details.
- You can perform searches without this configuration by adding wildcards ``*`` to the end of search terms.

Differences between PostgreSQL and MySQL search
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, Mattermost uses full text search support included in MySQL and PostgreSQL. These databases have slightly different search behavior. Check **Product menu > About Mattermost** to see which database you’re using.

For example, different databases have different “stop words” filtered out of search results. See `MySQL <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/fulltext-stopwords.html>`__ or `PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/textsearch-dictionaries.html#TEXTSEARCH-STOPWORDS>`__ database documentation for a full list.

Other database-specific differences include:

PostgreSQL:

- Email addresses don't return results.
- Hashtags or recent mentions of usernames containing a dash don't return results.
- Terms containing a dash return incorrect results since dashes are ignored in the search engine.

MySQL:

- Hashtags or recent mentions of usernames containing a dot don't return results.
- Stop words that are excluded from search in MySQL include: ``"a", "about", "an", "are", "as", "at", "be", "by", "com", "de", "en", "for", "from", "how", "i", "in", "is", "it", "la", "of", "on", "or", "that", "the", "this", "to", "was", "what", "when", "where", "who", "will", "with", "und", "the", "www"``.

Commit message:

Use asterisk for MySQL DB search over underlines (#5337)
Co-authored-by: Justine Geffen <justinegeffen@users.noreply.github.com>

source/messaging/searching-in-mattermost.rst, after:

Searching
=========

|all-plans| |cloud| |self-hosted|

.. |all-plans| image:: ../images/all-plans-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/pricing
  :alt: Available in Mattermost Free and Starter subscription plans.

.. |cloud| image:: ../images/cloud-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/download
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Cloud deployments.

.. |self-hosted| image:: ../images/self-hosted-badge.png
  :scale: 30
  :target: https://mattermost.com/deploy
  :alt: Available for Mattermost Self-Hosted deployments.

Use the Mattermost Search field to find messages, replies, and the contents of files shared across all channels you're a member of in your team's conversation history. File content search is available in Mattermost Server from v5.35 and in Mattermost Cloud, with mobile support coming soon.

.. image:: ../images/ui_search.png
   :alt: Use Search to find messages, replies, and the contents of files shared across channels.

You can also do more advanced search using `search modifiers <https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/searching-in-mattermost.html#search-modifiers>`__.

.. tabs::
  
  .. tab:: Mattermost v6.1 onwards

    From Mattermost v6.1, your search results include messages from all of your teams.

  .. tab:: Mattermost v6.0 and earlier

    In Mattermost versions up to v6.0, your search results include messages from your current team only.

Searching for message contents 
------------------------------

Select the Search field, then type your search criteria. 

.. image:: ../images/search-messages.png

When message results display in the Search Results pane, select **Jump** to view the full message in context.

.. image:: ../images/jump-to-message.png

.. tip::
  Message results return first automatically if a message search isn't specified. In the Search Results pane, select **Messages** or **Files** to toggle between results.
  
Searching for file contents
---------------------------

Select the **Search** field, select **Files**, then type your search criteria. 

.. image:: ../images/search-files.png

File contents that match on file name, or contain matching text content within supported document types, are returned in the Search Results pane. Each search result includes file name, extension, and size details, as well as details about when and where the file was originally shared.

- For Mattermost Cloud workspaces, supported document file formats include PDF, PPTX, DOCX, ODT, HTML, and plain text documents. DOC, RTF, and PAGES file formats, as well as the contents of ZIP files, are not supported.
- For Mattermost self-hosted deployments, supported document file formats include PDF, PPTX, DOCX, ODT, HTML, and plain text documents. 

  - System Admins can extend file content search support for self-hosted deployments to include:
  
    - `files shared before upgrading to Mattermost Server v5.35 <https://docs.mattermost.com/manage/command-line-tools.html#mattermost-extract-documents-content>`__.
    - `DOC, RTF, and PAGES file formats <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#enable-document-search-by-content>`__.
    - `documents within ZIP files <https://docs.mattermost.com/configure/configuration-settings.html#enable-searching-content-of-documents-within-zip-files>`__.

To narrow search results further, in the Search Results pane, select the **File Type Filter** option, then select specific file types, such as documents, spreadsheets, or images.
  
.. image:: ../images/file-search-filter.png

.. tip::
  Select the **Channel Files** icon below the channel name to access files recently shared in that channel. 
  
  .. image:: ../images/channel-files-icon.png

Search modifiers
----------------

You can apply search modifiers to any search to reduce the number of results returned. Select a search modifier to add it to the Search field. Supported modifiers are described below.

.. image:: ../images/search-modifiers.png

``from:`` and ``in:``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Use ``from:`` to find messages or files from specific users. 

  * For example, searching ``from:john.smith`` only returns content from your Direct Message history with John Smith.

- Use ``in:`` to find messages or files posted in specific Public channels, Private channels, Direct Messages, or Group Messages. You can specify channels by display name or channel ID. 
  
  * For example, searching ``Mattermost in:town-square`` only returns results in the Town Square Public channel that contains the term ``Mattermost``, while searching ``Mattermost in:john.doe`` only returns results that contains the term ``Mattermost`` in your Direct Message history with John Smith.

``before:``, ``after:``, and ``on:``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- Use ``before:`` to find messages or files posted before a specified date.

  * For example, searching ``website before: 2018-09-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted prior to September 1, 2018.

- Use ``after:`` to find messages or files posted after a specified date.

  * For example, searching ``website after: 2018-08-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted after August 1, 2018.

- Use both ``before:`` and ``after:`` together to search in a specified date range.

  * For example, searching ``website before: 2018-09-01 after: 2018-08-01`` returns all messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted between August 1, 2018 and September 1, 2018.

- Use ``on:`` to find messages files posted on a specific date. Use the date picker to select a date, or type it in YYYY-MM-DD format.

  * For example, searching ``website on: 2018-09-01`` returns messages or files containing the term ``website`` posted on September 1, 2018.

.. image:: ../images/calendar2.png
  :width: 300 px

Exclusions
~~~~~~~~~~

Use the hyphen ``-`` symbol to exclude terms from your search results. For example, searching ``test -release`` only returns results that include the term ``test`` and exclude the term ``release``.

This exclusion modifier can be used in combination with other modifiers to further refine search results. For example, searching ``test -release -in:release-discussion -from:eric`` returns all results with the term ``test``, excludes posts with the term ``release``, excludes posts made in the ``release-discussion`` channel, and excludes messages sent in Direct Messages by ``eric``.

Quotation Marks
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use quotation marks ``" "`` to return search results for exact terms. For example, searching ``"Mattermost website"`` returns messages containing the exact phrase ``Mattermost website``, but doesn't return results containing ``Mattermost`` and ``website`` as separate terms.

Wildcard
~~~~~~~~

Use the asterisk ``*`` symbol for wildcard searches that match within words. For example, searching ``rea*`` returns messages or files containing ``reach``, ``reason``, ``reality``, ``real``, and other words starting with ``rea``.

Hashtags
--------

Hashtags are searchable labels for messages. Anyone can create a hashtag in a message by using the pound sign ``#`` followed by alphanumeric or other unicode characters. Hashtag examples include: ``#bug``, ``#marketing``, ``#user_testing``, ``#per.iod``, ``#check-in``, ``#마케팅``.

Valid hashtags:

- Don't start with a number.
- Are at least three characters long, excluding the ``#``.
- Are made up of alphanumeric or other unicode characters.
- May contain dots, dashes, or underscores.

To search for messages containing hashtags, select a hashtag in an existing post, or type the hashtag (including the pound ``#`` symbol) into the search bar. 

.. note::
  
  Hashtags don't link to channels. If you have a channel named “Marketing”, selecting a ``#marketing`` hashtag does not take you to the Marketing channel. To link to public channels, use the tilde ``~`` symbol followed by the channel name. For example ``~marketing``.

Notes about all searches
------------------------

- Multiple-word searches return results that contain *all* of your search criteria.
- Search modifiers can help narrow down searches. See the `Search Modifiers`_ section for details.
- You can search Archived channels as long as you're a member of that channel.

  - If you're unable to see messages or files in archived channels in your search results, ask your System Admin if **Allow users to view archived channels** has been disabled under **System Console > Site Configuration > Users and Teams**.
  - To remove archived channels from your search results, you can leave the Archived channels.
- Like many search engines, common words such as ``the``, ``which``, and ``are`` (known as "stop words"), as well as two-letter and one-letter search terms, are not shown in search results because they typically return too many results. See the `Technical Notes`_ section for details.
- IP addresses (e.g. ``10.100.200.101``) don't return results.

Technical notes
---------------

Searching Chinese, Korean, and Japanese
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

- The best experience for searching in Chinese, Korean, and Japanese is to use MySQL 5.7.6 or later with special configuration. See the `Chinese, Japanese and Korean Search documentation <https://docs.mattermost.com/install/i18n.html>`__ for details.
- You can perform searches without this configuration by adding wildcards ``*`` to the end of search terms.

Differences between PostgreSQL and MySQL search
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

By default, Mattermost uses full text search support included in MySQL and PostgreSQL. These databases have slightly different search behavior. Check **Product menu > About Mattermost** to see which database you’re using.

For example, different databases have different “stop words” filtered out of search results. See `MySQL <https://dev.mysql.com/doc/refman/5.7/en/fulltext-stopwords.html>`__ or `PostgreSQL <https://www.postgresql.org/docs/10/textsearch-dictionaries.html#TEXTSEARCH-STOPWORDS>`__ database documentation for a full list.

Other database-specific differences include:

PostgreSQL:

- Email addresses don't return results.
- Hashtags or recent mentions of usernames containing a dash don't return results.
- Terms containing a dash return incorrect results since dashes are ignored in the search engine.

MySQL:

- Hashtags or recent mentions of usernames containing a dot don't return results.
- Avoid using underline ``_`` symbol to `perform a wildcard search <https://docs.mattermost.com/messaging/searching-in-mattermost.html#wildcard>`__. Use the asterisk ``*`` symbol instead.
- Stop words that are excluded from search in MySQL include: ``"a", "about", "an", "are", "as", "at", "be", "by", "com", "de", "en", "for", "from", "how", "i", "in", "is", "it", "la", "of", "on", "or", "that", "the", "this", "to", "was", "what", "when", "where", "who", "will", "with", "und", "the", "www"``.
