source/developer/contribution-guide.md, before:

# Code Contribution Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Mattermost. Here's the process:  

## Choose a Ticket

1. Choose a ticket from the [Help Wanted GitHub Issues](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20%5BHelp%20Wanted%5D) or the [Accepting Pull Requests](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=10101) (APR Tickets) list.
    - Choose any ticket marked "Open", even if it's assigned, and comment to let people know you're working on it. 
    - If you're looking for a quick ticket, pick something from the [Good First Contribution](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=10206) list instead.

2. If you have questions post in [Mattermost forum](http://forum.mattermost.org/) or join the [Contributors](https://pre-release.mattermost.com/core/channels/tickets) channel and announce the ticket you'd like to work on so it can be assigned to you. 

It's okay to submit PRs to fix obvious bugs or add small improvements, but anything that significantly changes behavior or user expectations [requires an APR ticket opened by the core team](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html) so that the change can be tested, documented and supported. 

The best way to discuss opening an APR ticket with the core team is by [starting a conversation in the feature idea forum](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/).

## Install Mattermost and set up a Fork

Once you have a ticket: 

1. Follow the [developer setup instructions](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/developer-setup.html) to install Mattermost.

2. Create a branch with `<branch name>` set to the ID of the ticket you're working on, for example `PLT-394`, using the command: `git checkout -b <branch name>`

3. Take a look at the [developer flow](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/developer-flow.html) to learn how to work with the Mattermost codebase.

## Preparing a Pull Request 

Before submitting a pull request (PR), check that:  

1. You’ve signed the [Contributor License Agreement](http://www.mattermost.org/mattermost-contributor-agreement/), so you can be added to the Mattermost [Approved Contributor List](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NTCeG-iL_VS9bFqtmHSfwETo5f-8MQ7oMDE5IUYJi_Y/pubhtml?gid=0&single=true).  
2. Your change has an [APR Ticket](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html).
3. Your code follows the [Mattermost Style Guide](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/style-guide.html).  
4. Unit tests are included for new server side functionality. 
5. Strings in user interface are included in [.../i18n/en.json](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/blob/master/i18n/en.json) and [.../webapp/i18n/en.json](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/tree/master/webapp/i18n/en.json) localization files. Files for other languages will automatically be updated through the [Mattermost Translation Server](http://translate.mattermost.com) and do not need to be included in the pull request.
6. Change meets UX Guidelines of [Fast, Obvious, Forgiving](http://www.mattermost.org/design-principles/).
7. If change requires user to understand a new concept or make a decision, PR for help documentation is submitted to [mattermost/docs](https://github.com/mattermost/docs).
8. Change is thoroughly tested. If your change involves text processing, make sure to at least run markdown loadtests in [`/tests`](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/tree/master/tests) before submitting the PR. To run the loadtests:
    - Go to **System Console** > **Developer** and set **Enable Testing Commands** to true
    - Run `/loadtest url test-markdown-basics.md` and follow the instructions
    - Run `/loadtest url test-markdown-lists.md` and follow the instructions
9. Confirm you have [squashed your commits](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History#Squashing-Commits).

## Submitting a Pull Request 

When submitting a PR, check that:  

1. PR is submitted against `master`
2. PR title begins with the Jira Ticket ID (eg `PLT-394:`, [see examples](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed))
3. PR comment describes the changes and how the feature is supposed to work

## Managing an Open Pull Request 

After submitting a PR, before it is merged:  

1. Automated build process must pass  
    - If the build fails, check the error log to narrow down the reason. 
    - Sometimes one of the multiple build tests will randomly fail due to issues in Travis CI. If you see just one build failure and no clear error message, it may be a random issue. Add a comment so the reviewer for your change can re-run the build for you, or close the PR and re-submit and that typically clears the issue. 
2. PM review must pass
    - A Product Manager will review the pull request to make sure it:
        - Fits with our product roadmap
        - Works as expected
        - Meets [UX guidelines](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/fx-guidelines.html)
    - The Product Manager may come back with some bugs or UI improvements to fix before the pull request moves on to dev review.
3. Dev review must pass
    - Two developers will review the pull request and either give feedback or approve the PR.
    - Any comments will need to be addressed before the pull request is ready to merge.

If you've included your mailing address in the signed [Contributor License Agreement](https://www.mattermost.org/mattermost-contributor-agreement/), you may receive a [Limited Edition Mattermost Mug](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/limited-edition-mattermost-mugs/143) as a thank you gift after your first pull request is merged. 

### Approved Reviewers

**Approved Dev reviewers include**: coreyhulen, crspeller, enahum, grundleborg, hmhealey, jwilander

**Approved PM reviewers include**: asaadmahmood, esethna, it33, jasonblais, lfbrock, yangchen1

Commit message:

Add test-tables to guidelines

source/developer/contribution-guide.md, after:

# Code Contribution Guidelines

Thank you for your interest in contributing to Mattermost. Here's the process:  

## Choose a Ticket

1. Choose a ticket from the [Help Wanted GitHub Issues](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue%20is%3Aopen%20%5BHelp%20Wanted%5D) or the [Accepting Pull Requests](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=10101) (APR Tickets) list.
    - Choose any ticket marked "Open", even if it's assigned, and comment to let people know you're working on it. 
    - If you're looking for a quick ticket, pick something from the [Good First Contribution](https://mattermost.atlassian.net/issues/?filter=10206) list instead.

2. If you have questions post in [Mattermost forum](http://forum.mattermost.org/) or join the [Contributors](https://pre-release.mattermost.com/core/channels/tickets) channel and announce the ticket you'd like to work on so it can be assigned to you. 

It's okay to submit PRs to fix obvious bugs or add small improvements, but anything that significantly changes behavior or user expectations [requires an APR ticket opened by the core team](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html) so that the change can be tested, documented and supported. 

The best way to discuss opening an APR ticket with the core team is by [starting a conversation in the feature idea forum](http://www.mattermost.org/feature-requests/).

## Install Mattermost and set up a Fork

Once you have a ticket: 

1. Follow the [developer setup instructions](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/developer-setup.html) to install Mattermost.

2. Create a branch with `<branch name>` set to the ID of the ticket you're working on, for example `PLT-394`, using the command: `git checkout -b <branch name>`

3. Take a look at the [developer flow](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/developer-flow.html) to learn how to work with the Mattermost codebase.

## Preparing a Pull Request 

Before submitting a pull request (PR), check that:  

1. You’ve signed the [Contributor License Agreement](http://www.mattermost.org/mattermost-contributor-agreement/), so you can be added to the Mattermost [Approved Contributor List](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1NTCeG-iL_VS9bFqtmHSfwETo5f-8MQ7oMDE5IUYJi_Y/pubhtml?gid=0&single=true).  
2. Your change has an [APR Ticket](http://docs.mattermost.com/process/accepting-pull-request.html).
3. Your code follows the [Mattermost Style Guide](http://docs.mattermost.com/developer/style-guide.html).  
4. Unit tests are included for new server side functionality. 
5. Strings in user interface are included in [.../i18n/en.json](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/blob/master/i18n/en.json) and [.../webapp/i18n/en.json](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/tree/master/webapp/i18n/en.json) localization files. Files for other languages will automatically be updated through the [Mattermost Translation Server](http://translate.mattermost.com) and do not need to be included in the pull request.
6. Change meets UX Guidelines of [Fast, Obvious, Forgiving](http://www.mattermost.org/design-principles/).
7. If change requires user to understand a new concept or make a decision, PR for help documentation is submitted to [mattermost/docs](https://github.com/mattermost/docs).
8. Change is thoroughly tested. If your change involves text processing, make sure to at least run markdown loadtests in [`/tests`](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/tree/master/tests) before submitting the PR. To run the loadtests:
    - Go to **System Console** > **Developer** and set **Enable Testing Commands** to true
    - Run `/loadtest url test-markdown-basics.md` and follow the instructions
    - Run `/loadtest url test-markdown-lists.md` and follow the instructions
    - Run `/loadtest url test-tables.md` and follow the instructions
9. Confirm you have [squashed your commits](http://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Git-Tools-Rewriting-History#Squashing-Commits).

## Submitting a Pull Request 

When submitting a PR, check that:  

1. PR is submitted against `master`
2. PR title begins with the Jira Ticket ID (eg `PLT-394:`, [see examples](https://github.com/mattermost/platform/pulls?q=is%3Apr+is%3Aclosed))
3. PR comment describes the changes and how the feature is supposed to work

## Managing an Open Pull Request 

After submitting a PR, before it is merged:  

1. Automated build process must pass  
    - If the build fails, check the error log to narrow down the reason. 
    - Sometimes one of the multiple build tests will randomly fail due to issues in Travis CI. If you see just one build failure and no clear error message, it may be a random issue. Add a comment so the reviewer for your change can re-run the build for you, or close the PR and re-submit and that typically clears the issue. 
2. PM review must pass
    - A Product Manager will review the pull request to make sure it:
        - Fits with our product roadmap
        - Works as expected
        - Meets [UX guidelines](https://docs.mattermost.com/developer/fx-guidelines.html)
    - The Product Manager may come back with some bugs or UI improvements to fix before the pull request moves on to dev review.
3. Dev review must pass
    - Two developers will review the pull request and either give feedback or approve the PR.
    - Any comments will need to be addressed before the pull request is ready to merge.

If you've included your mailing address in the signed [Contributor License Agreement](https://www.mattermost.org/mattermost-contributor-agreement/), you may receive a [Limited Edition Mattermost Mug](https://forum.mattermost.org/t/limited-edition-mattermost-mugs/143) as a thank you gift after your first pull request is merged. 

### Approved Reviewers

**Approved Dev reviewers include**: coreyhulen, crspeller, enahum, grundleborg, hmhealey, jwilander

**Approved PM reviewers include**: asaadmahmood, esethna, it33, jasonblais, lfbrock, yangchen1
