.. _interactive-message-dialogs:

Interactive Message Dialogs:
========================================

Interactive message dialogs are used by integrations deployed on the Mattermost server. They are a way for integrations to receive some input in the style of a form from users and have that input submitted back to the integration. Use them to gather structured information from the end user to perform an action or a request.

Integrations open dialogs by sending an HTTP POST, containing some data in the request body, to an endpoint on the Mattermost server. Integrations can use this endpoint to open dialogs when users :doc:`click message buttons or select an option from a menu <interactive-messages>`, or use a :doc:`custom slash command <slash-commands>`.

Moreover, :doc:`plugins <../administration/plugins>` can trigger a dialog based on user actions. For instance, if a plugin adds a button in the channel header, clicking that button may open a message dialog.

Here is an example of what a message dialog looks like to create a JIRA issue within the Mattermost user interface.

// XXX <add screenshot>

.. toctree::
  :maxdepth: 2

Parameters
-----------------------

Interactive message dialogs support the following parameters: 

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Parameter", "Type", "Description"

    "title", "String", "Title of the dialog. Maximum 24 characters."
    "elements", "Array", "Up to 5 elements allowed per dialog. See below for more details on elements."
    "url", "String", "The URL to send the submitted dialog payload to."
    "icon_url", "String", "(Optional) The URL of the icon used for your dialog. If none specified, no icon is displayed."
    "submit_label", "String", "(Optional) Label of the button to complete the dialog. Default is ``Submit``."
    "notify_on_cancel", "String", "(Optional) When true, sends an event back to the integration whenever there's a user-induced dialog cancellation. No other data is sent back with the event. Default is ``false``."
    "state", "Boolean", "(Optional) String provided by the integration that will be echoed back with dialog submission. Default is `` ``."

Sample JSON is given below. Form submissions are sent back to the URL defined by the integration.

.. code-block:: json

  {
      "trigger_id": "<unique ID generated by the server>",
      "url": "<URL to send the submitted request to>",
      "dialog": {
          "callback_id": "<ID specified by the integration to identify the request>",
          "title": "<title of the dialog>",
          "elements": [<Array of UI elements to display in the dialog>],
          "submit_label": "<label of the button to complete the dialog>",
          "notify_on_cancel": false,
          "state": "<string provided by the integration that will be echoed back with dialog submission>",
      }
  }

Elements
-----------------------

Each dialog supports up to five elements for users to enter information. If your form needs more than five fields, such as for collecting survey responses, consider chaining dialogs together with buttons or menus to serialize workflows.

// XXX Joram: I don't think we actually have this limit, do we? The sample dialog you prepared has more than 5.

The form elements support the following fields:

- **text**: Single-line plain text field. Use this for inputs such as names, email addresses or phone numbers.
- **textarea**: Multi-line plain text field. Use this field when the answer is expected to be longer than 150 characters. 
- **select**: Message menu. Use this for pre-selected choices. Can either be static menus, or dynamic menus generated from users and public channels of the system. For more information on message menus, see :doc:`the documentation <interactive-messages>`.

Each element is required by default. Otherwise the client will return an error as shown below. Note that the error message will appear below the help text, if one is specified. To make an element optional, set the field ``"optional": "true"``.

// XXX <add screenshot>

Text Elements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Text elements are single-line plain text fields. Below is an example of a text element that asks for an email address.

// XXX <add screenshot for an example>

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "display_name": "Email Address",
    "name": "email",
    "type": "text",
    "subtype": "email",
    "placeholder": "you@example.com"
  }

There is an optional ``"subtype": "email"`` field in the above example, which specifies the keyboard layout used on mobile. For this example, the email keypad is shown to the user given the subtype is set to ``email``.

// XXX <add screenshots to illustrate the difference>

The full list of supported fields are included below:

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Field", "Type", "Description"

    "display_name", "String", "Display name of the field shown to the user in the message dialog. Maximum 24 characters."
    "name", "String", "Name of the field element used by the integration. Maximum 300 characters. You should use unique “name” fields in the same message dialog."
    "type", "String", "Set this value to ``text`` for a text element."
    "subtype", "String", "(Optional) One of ``text``, ``email``, ``number``, ``tel``, or ``url``. Default is ``text``. Use this to set which keypad is presented to users on mobile when entering the field."
    "min_length", "Integer", "(Optional) Minimum input length allowed for an element. Default is 0."
    "max_length", "Integer", "(Optional) Maximum input length allowed for an element. Default is 150. If you expect the input to be greater 150 characters, consider using a ``textarea`` type element instead."
    "optional", "String", "(Optional) Set to true if this form element is not required. Default is ``false``."
    "help_text", "Integer", "(Optional) Set help text for this form element. Maximum 150 characters."
    "default", "Integer", "(Optional) Set a default value for this form element. Maximum 150 characters."
    "placeholder", "Integer", "(Optional) A string displayed to help guide users in completing the element. Maximum 150 characters."
    
Textarea Elements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Textarea elements are multi-line plain text fields. Below is an example of a textarea element that asks for a ticket description.

// XXX <add screenshot for an example>

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "display_name": "Ticket Description",
    "name": "ticket_description",
    "type": "textarea",
    "help_text": "Provide description for your ticket."
  }

The maximum length for a textarea is 3,000 characters.

The list of supported fields is the same as for the ``textarea`` type element.

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Field", "Type", "Description"

    "display_name", "String", "Display name of the field shown to the user in the message dialog. Maximum 24 characters."
    "name", "String", "Name of the field element used by the integration. Maximum 300 characters. You should use unique “name” fields in the same message dialog."
    "type", "String", "Set this value to ``textarea`` for a textarea element."
    "subtype", "String", "(Optional) One of ``text``, ``email``, ``number``, ``tel``, or ``url``. Default is ``text``. Use this to set which keypad is presented to users on mobile when entering the field."
    "min_length", "Integer", "(Optional) Minimum input length allowed for an element. Default is 0."
    "max_length", "Integer", "(Optional) Maximum input length allowed for an element. Default is 3,000."
    "optional", "String", "(Optional) Set to true if this form element is not required. Default is ``false``."
    "help_text", "Integer", "(Optional) Set help text for this form element. Maximum 150 characters."
    "default", "Integer", "(Optional) Set a default value for this form element. Maximum 3,000 characters."
    "placeholder", "Integer", "(Optional) A string displayed to help guide users in completing the element. Maximum 3,000 characters."

Select Elements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Select elements are message menus that allow users to select one pre-defined option from a list. Below is an example of a select element that asks for one of three different options.

// XXX <add screenshot for an example>

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "display_name": "Options",
    "name": "options",
    "type": "select",
    "options": [
       {
         "text": "Option1",
         "value": "opt1"
       },
       {
         "text": "Option2",
         "value": "opt2"
       },
       {
         "text": "Option3",
         "value": "opt3"
       }
     ]
  }

Note that the JSON payload for ``select`` type elements matches :doc:`interactive message menus <interactive-messages>`.

The select element can also be generated dynamically from users and channels of the system.

For users, use

.. code-block:: json

  {
    "display_name": "Assignee",
    "name": "assignee",
    "type": "select",
    "data_source": "users"
  }

// XXX <add screenshot for an example>

and for public channels, use

  {
    "display_name": "Post this message to",
    "name": "channel",
    "type": "select",
    "data_source": "channels"
  }

// XXX <add screenshot for an example>

The list of supported fields for the ``select`` type element is included below:

.. csv-table::
    :header: "Field", "Type", "Description"

    "display_name", "String", "Display name of the field shown to the user in the message dialog. Maximum 24 characters."
    "name", "String", "Name of the field element used by the integration. Maximum 300 characters. You should use unique “name” fields in the same message dialog."
    "type", "String", "Set this value to ``select`` for a select element."
    "data_source", "String", "(Optional) One of ``users``, or ``channels``. If none specified, assumes a manual list of options is provided by the integration."
    "options", "String", "(Optional) An array of options for the select element. Not applicable for ``users`` or ``channels`` data sources."
    "optional", "String", "(Optional) Set to true if this form element is not required. Default is ``false``."
    "help_text", "Integer", "(Optional) Set help text for this form element. Maximum 150 characters."
    "default", "Integer", "(Optional) Set a default value for this form element. Maximum 3,000 characters."
    "placeholder", "Integer", "(Optional) A string displayed to help guide users in completing the element. Maximum 3,000 characters."

Dialog Submission
-----------------------

When a user submits a dialog, Mattermost will perform client-side input validation to make sure

  - All required fields are filled
  - All formats are correct (e.g. email, telephone number, etc.)

Moreover, Mattermost also allows the integration itself to perform input validation.

// XXX Joram can we have an example of this? Using a Go example is okay.

// XXX <include a transition here to the next section>

The submission payload sent to the integration is:

.. code-block:: json

  {
      "type": "dialog_submission",
      "callback_id": "<callback ID provided by the integration>",
      "state": "<state provided by the integration>", 
      "user_id": "<user ID of the user who submitted the dialog>",
      "channel_id": "<channel ID the user was in when submitting the dialog>",
      "team_id": "<team ID the user was on when submitting the dialog>",
      "submission": {
          "some_element_name": "<value of that element>",
          "some_other_element": "<value of some other element>"
      },
      “cancelled”: false
  }

Optionally, the dialog can send an event back to the integration if ``notify_on_cancel`` parameter is set to true. If this happens, ``cancelled`` will be set to true on the above payload, and ``submission`` will be empty.

Once the request is submitted, we recommend the integration to respond with a system message or an ephemeral message confirming the submission.

.. note::

  If the dialog is closed by clicking the "Cancel" button or by clicking the "X", no data will be submitted. If a user clicks away from the dialog, the dialog won’t close to prevent accidentally losing any answers they've made to an unsubmitted dialog.

Share Your Integration
-----------------------

If you've built an integration for Mattermost, please consider `sharing your work <https://www.mattermost.org/share-your-mattermost-projects/>`_ in our `app directory <https://about.mattermost.com/default-app-directory/>`_.

The `app directory <https://about.mattermost.com/default-app-directory/>`_ lists open source integrations developed by the Mattermost community and are available for download, customization and deployment to your private cloud or on-prem infrastructure.

Slack Compatibility
--------------------

Like Slack, dialogs are triggered by an interactive message menu or button, or by a custom slash command. Additionally, Mattermost can trigger dialogs via plugins.

The schema for these objects is the same as Slack's, except for the following differences:

  - ``url`` field must be specified for Mattermost dialogs, which specifies where the request is sent to. In Slack, this is handled by specifying the URL within the Slack app that uses the dialog.
  - ``icon_url`` is an optional field to set the icon for Mattermost dialogs. In Slack, the dialogs use the icon set for the app that uses the dialog.
  - ``label`` in Slack dialogs is ``display_name`` in Mattermost dialogs for a more consistent naming convention with other integration types.
  - ``hint`` in Slack dialogs is ``help_text`` in Mattermost dialogs for a more consistent naming convention with other integration types.
  - ``value`` in Slack dialogs is ``default`` in Mattermost dialogs for a more consistent naming convention with other integration types.

Moreover, the JSON payload for ``select`` type elements matches :doc:`interactive message menus <interactive-messages>`.
