source/developer/mobile-developer-setup.rst, before:

..  _mobile-developer-setup:

Mobile Developer Machine Setup
==================================

If you run into any issues getting your environment set up, please check the Troubleshooting section at the bottom for common solutions.

1. Set up the environment required to build the `mattermost-mobile <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile>`_ project on your machine

  - `Mac OS X`_

2. Set up a device or emulator on which to test your Mattermost mobile client

  - `Android (Device)`_

Development Environment Setup
---------------------------------

Mac OS X
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install `XCode 8.1 <https://developer.apple.com/download/>`_

2. Install `Homebrew <http://brew.sh/>`_

3. Using Homebrew, install `Node.js <https://nodejs.org>`_ and npm

  - ``brew install node``

4. Using Homebrew, install `Watchman <https://github.com/facebook/watchman>`_

  - ``brew install watchman``

5. Using npm, install the React Native CLI tools globally

  - ``npm install -g react-native-cli``

6. Fork `mattermost-mobile <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile>`_ on GitHub and then clone it locally

  - ``cd`` into the folder that you want to store the local copy of your code

  - ``git clone https://github.com/<username>/mattermost-mobile.git``

  - ``cd mattermost-mobile``

7. Using npm, download any other dependencies

  - ``make pre-run``

*Optional:* Install Mattermost locally so that you can run unit tests and connect to the server while doing development

8. Follow the steps in the `Developer Machine Setup <developer-setup.html>`_ to install Mattermost

9. Edit your Mattermost instance's configuration file (located in ``config/config.json``)

  - Set ``"EnableOpenServer"`` to ``true``

10. Start/restart your server

  - ``make restart-server``

Test Environment Setup
--------------------------

Android (Device)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install the Android SDK (can be skipped if you already have Android Studio installed)

  1. Go to `the Android developer downloads page <https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html#downloads>`_, scroll down to the Get Just the Command Line Tools, and download the zip file suitable for your operating system

  2. Unzip the SDK to somewhere on your hard drive (eg. `/Users/<username>/Library/Android/sdk` on Mac OS X)

  3. Configure the following environment variables:

    - Set ``ANDROID_HOME`` to the location that you unzipped the SDK to

    - Add ``ANDROID_HOME/tools`` and ``ANDROID_HOME/platform-tools`` to the ``PATH``

2. Run ``android`` to open the Android SDK Manager and install the following packages:

  - Tooks > Android SDK Tools 25.2.5 or higher

  - Tools > Android SDK Platform-tools 25.0.3

  - Tools > Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.1

  - Android 6.0 > SDK Platform 23

  - Android 6.0 > Google APIs 23

  - Android 5.1.1 > SDK Platform 22

  - Android 5.1.1 > Google APIs 22

  - Extras > Android Support Repository

3. Connect your Android device to your computer

4. Enable USB Debugging on your device

5. Ensure that your device is listed in the output of ``adb devices``

6. Start the React Native packager to deploy the APK to your device

  - ``make run-android``

7. The installed APK may not be opened automatically. You may need to manually open the Mattermost app on your device

Troubleshooting
------------------

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  react-native-vector-icons: cannot find dependencies

Make sure the Extras > Android Support Repository package is installed with the Android SDK.

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  ``Execution failed for task ':app:packageAllDebugClassesForMultiDex'.
  > java.util.zip.ZipException: duplicate entry: android/support/v7/appcompat/R$anim.class``

You need to clean the Android part of the mattermost-mobile project

  - ``cd android``

  - ``./gradlew clean``

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  Execution failed for task ':app:installDebug'.
  > com.android.builder.testing.api.DeviceException: com.android.ddmlib.InstallException: Failed to finalize session : INSTALL_FAILED_UPDATE_INCOMPATIBLE: Package com.mattermost.react.native signatures do not match the previously installed version; ignoring!

The development version of the Mattermost app cannot be installed alongside a release version. Open ``android/app/build.gradle`` and change the applicationId from ``"com.mattermost.react.native"`` to a unique string for your app.

Commit message:

Intro tweaks
- Adding link to repo, not that apps are unreleased,
- Adding TOC

source/developer/mobile-developer-setup.rst, after:

..  _mobile-developer-setup:

==================================
Mobile Developer Machine Setup
==================================

The following instructions apply to new unreleased mobile apps for iOS and Android built in React Native. They are intended to release in Beta at the end of March 2017. Source code can be found at: https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile

OVERVIEW: 

.. contents::
  :backlinks: top
  :local:


If you run into any issues getting your environment set up, please check the Troubleshooting section at the bottom for common solutions.

1. Set up the environment required to build the `mattermost-mobile <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile>`_ project on your machine

  - `Mac OS X`_

2. Set up a device or emulator on which to test your Mattermost mobile client

  - `Android (Device)`_

Development Environment Setup
---------------------------------

Mac OS X
~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install `XCode 8.1 <https://developer.apple.com/download/>`_

2. Install `Homebrew <http://brew.sh/>`_

3. Using Homebrew, install `Node.js <https://nodejs.org>`_ and npm

  - ``brew install node``

4. Using Homebrew, install `Watchman <https://github.com/facebook/watchman>`_

  - ``brew install watchman``

5. Using npm, install the React Native CLI tools globally

  - ``npm install -g react-native-cli``

6. Fork `mattermost-mobile <https://github.com/mattermost/mattermost-mobile>`_ on GitHub and then clone it locally

  - ``cd`` into the folder that you want to store the local copy of your code

  - ``git clone https://github.com/<username>/mattermost-mobile.git``

  - ``cd mattermost-mobile``

7. Using npm, download any other dependencies

  - ``make pre-run``

*Optional:* Install Mattermost locally so that you can run unit tests and connect to the server while doing development

8. Follow the steps in the `Developer Machine Setup <developer-setup.html>`_ to install Mattermost

9. Edit your Mattermost instance's configuration file (located in ``config/config.json``)

  - Set ``"EnableOpenServer"`` to ``true``

10. Start/restart your server

  - ``make restart-server``

Test Environment Setup
--------------------------

Android (Device)
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

1. Install the Android SDK (can be skipped if you already have Android Studio installed)

  1. Go to `the Android developer downloads page <https://developer.android.com/studio/index.html#downloads>`_, scroll down to the Get Just the Command Line Tools, and download the zip file suitable for your operating system

  2. Unzip the SDK to somewhere on your hard drive (eg. `/Users/<username>/Library/Android/sdk` on Mac OS X)

  3. Configure the following environment variables:

    - Set ``ANDROID_HOME`` to the location that you unzipped the SDK to

    - Add ``ANDROID_HOME/tools`` and ``ANDROID_HOME/platform-tools`` to the ``PATH``

2. Run ``android`` to open the Android SDK Manager and install the following packages:

  - Tooks > Android SDK Tools 25.2.5 or higher

  - Tools > Android SDK Platform-tools 25.0.3

  - Tools > Android SDK Build-tools 23.0.1

  - Android 6.0 > SDK Platform 23

  - Android 6.0 > Google APIs 23

  - Android 5.1.1 > SDK Platform 22

  - Android 5.1.1 > Google APIs 22

  - Extras > Android Support Repository

3. Connect your Android device to your computer

4. Enable USB Debugging on your device

5. Ensure that your device is listed in the output of ``adb devices``

6. Start the React Native packager to deploy the APK to your device

  - ``make run-android``

7. The installed APK may not be opened automatically. You may need to manually open the Mattermost app on your device

Troubleshooting
------------------

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  react-native-vector-icons: cannot find dependencies

Make sure the Extras > Android Support Repository package is installed with the Android SDK.

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  ``Execution failed for task ':app:packageAllDebugClassesForMultiDex'.
  > java.util.zip.ZipException: duplicate entry: android/support/v7/appcompat/R$anim.class``

You need to clean the Android part of the mattermost-mobile project

  - ``cd android``

  - ``./gradlew clean``

**I get the following error when running `make run-android`:** ::

  Execution failed for task ':app:installDebug'.
  > com.android.builder.testing.api.DeviceException: com.android.ddmlib.InstallException: Failed to finalize session : INSTALL_FAILED_UPDATE_INCOMPATIBLE: Package com.mattermost.react.native signatures do not match the previously installed version; ignoring!

The development version of the Mattermost app cannot be installed alongside a release version. Open ``android/app/build.gradle`` and change the applicationId from ``"com.mattermost.react.native"`` to a unique string for your app.
